Table of Contents 

Item 1. Business 

PART I 

We  provide  comprehensive  data  solutions  designed  to  empower  organizations  across  the  semiconductor  and 
electronics  ecosystems  to  improve  the  yield  and  quality  of  their  products  and  operational  efficiency  for  increased 
profitability. We derive revenues from two sources, Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Our offerings contribute to 
Analytics  revenue  through  contract  fees  for  on-premise  software  and  hardware  system  licenses,  software-as-a-service 
(“SaaS”), and other professional services. Certain of our Characterization services engagements contribute to Integrated 
Yield Ramp revenue through contract fees and a value-based, variable fee or royalty, which we call Gainshare. We are 
headquartered in Santa Clara, California and also operate worldwide with offices in Canada, China, France, Germany, 
Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. 

Business Overview 

Our customers include Fortune 500 companies across the semiconductor and electronics ecosystem. These companies 
use our products and services to achieve various goals depending on whether they are integrated device manufacturers 
(“IDMs”),  fabless  semiconductor  companies,  foundries,  equipment  manufacturers,  electronics  manufacturing  suppliers 
(“EMS”), original device manufacturers (“ODMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (“OSATs”), or system 
houses. For example, our foundry customers generate and analyze key manufacturing data using our solutions to shorten 
the time necessary for technology development and to provide their fabless customers with a higher yielding process with 
improved electrical performance, which are both critical metrics for market success. Higher yields in less time can also 
mean less total raw materials and process runs, which help lower customers’ total cost and minimize environmental impact. 
Also, equipment manufacturers and factories use our connectivity products to implement evolving industry standards for 
their equipment or operations, respectively, with required quality and stability. By way of further example, our IDM and 
fabless customers use our solutions to generate unique, differentiated data that can be analyzed with our machine learning 
(“ML”) and artificial intelligence (“AI”) algorithms to predict downstream manufacturing issues, resulting in shorter time 
for  designs  to  meet  performance  requirements  with  fewer  iterations  and  faster  time-to-market.  For  final  example,  our 
foundry and OSAT customers use the AI and ML applications of our software to optimize for process control, assembly, 
and/or test. 

Our mission is to provide innovative solutions to create, access, and organize data to enable analysis and control for 
semiconductor and electronics companies to achieve better time-to-market, yields, quality, and operational efficiencies. 
Our strategy to achieve this is as follows: 

•  Offer a Common, Flexible Platform for a Broad Group of Customers Across the Supply Chain. As semiconductor 
and electronics products are made with the efforts of equipment manufacturers, front-end foundries, chip and 
system designers, design automation, intellectual property (“IP”) providers, and OSATs, there is a need to analyze 
data across this whole chain to optimize yields, operational efficiencies, time to market, quality, and reliability. 
Our  comprehensive  platform  is  designed  based  on  industry  standards  and  integrated  with  leading  solutions 
providers to enable these different participants to analyze the relevant end-to-end data in near real-time, with 
cloud  or  on-premise  data  stores  from  10s  to  100s  of  terabytes  (“TBs”)  and  flexible  configurations  for  IDM, 
foundry, fabless, and OSAT specific needs. Our ML solutions combine professional services with our Exensio 
software to further enable our customers to push their analytics “to the edge” of their global supply chains and 
shift  the  analysis  and  decision-making  processes  closer  to  where  their  data  is  being  generated.  We  believe 
enabling  edge  analytics  will  further  increase  our  customers’  ability  to  improve  product  yield,  quality, 
performance, and profitability, and therefore, should drive the market for our products and services. 

•  Drive Tool-Level Software Installations to Create an Infrastructure of Connected Equipment and Enable Smart 
Factories. We believe that driving installation of our Exensio and Cimetrix software products at the tool level 
will  help  provide  an  infrastructure  of  connected  equipment  and  help  to  enable  smart  factories.  Our  Cimetrix 
products are based on open standards for equipment control and connectivity to equipment manufacturers and 
factories, which we believe will be more in demand in the smart manufacturing era. Further, we believe that the 

4 

Table of Contents 

benefits from integration between analytics on equipment, the factory, and in the cloud will provide synergies 
with our existing end-to-end analytics offerings. 

•  Create Differentiated Data Sources for Better Analytics. Historically, companies have only used data that was 
generated  from  their  manufacturing  and  test  process  to  drive  improvements.  We  offer  unique  IP  (such  as 
Characterization Vehicle® test chips, also branded CV® test chips) that is not part of an integrated circuit’s (“IC”) 
functionality, but significantly improves the manufacturing process by improving yield learning and reducing 
time to market. Also, our Design-for-Inspection™ system (also branded DFI™ system) identifies blockers that 
impact product yield and quality up to months earlier than any other hardware- or software-based methodology 
from proprietary e-beam measurement of product layout or provided on-chip instrumentation. We believe that in 
the More-than-Moore (“MtM”) era, the differentiated data we provide can play an important role in enabling our 
customers to bring new products to market faster and with higher quality and performance, and, ultimately, more 
profitability. 

•  Collaborate with Other Industry Leaders to Bring Additional Unique Data to Our Platform and Enable New and 
Differentiated Applications. We believe that the value we bring to semiconductor manufacturing can be leveraged 
with  additional  data  and  through  differentiated  applications.  For  example,  in  2023,  we  started  offering  an 
enterprise application integration module called Sapience™ Manufacturing Hub, which is designed to collect and 
unify data from enterprise applications, such as manufacturing execution systems (“MES”), enterprise resource 
planning  systems  (“ERP”)  like  SAP  S/4HANA®,  and  our  Exensio  software,  and  make  such  data  available 
through a central interface. Also in 2023, working with Siemens Digital Industries Software, we started offering 
two new Exensio modules, Exensio AIM Scan Analytics and Exensio AIM Scan Systematics Diagnostics, which 
are  designed  to  enablediagnostic  accuracy  and  efficiency  of  fail  mode  to  help  our  customers  that  also  use 
Siemens’s  Tessent  software  determine  the  electrical  and  physical  failing  locations  for  product  and  process 
improvements. Building relationships with other industry leaders is intended to provide more ways for mutual 
customers  to  leverage  their  process  and  product  data  as  part  of  their  Industry  4.0  initiatives.  Differentiated 
applications that make use of this shared data are designed to provide unique insights to help customers achieve 
sustained profitability in their manufacturing. 

Brief History 

PDF  Solutions  was  incorporated  in  Pennsylvania  in  November 1992,  and  we  reincorporated  in  California  in 
November 1995. In July 2000, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in July 2001, we completed an initial public offering. 
Our shares of common stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “PDFS”. 

From  2000  through  2009,  we  expanded  our  technology  footprint  and  our  operations  in  various  countries  through 
acquisitions. From 2009 to 2019, we primarily focused on the pervasive application of our technology to leading edge 
logic manufacturing and achieving yield targets with our clients that maximized Gainshare royalties. In 2013, we leveraged 
our  extensive  experience  in  yield  simulation  software  and  CV®  test  chip  development  and  started  research  and 
development on an e-beam solution for non-contact, inline electrical inspection and process control for wafer inspection. 

In a parallel effort, starting in 2014, we re-architected our point-solution software tools into a new generation, highly-

integrated data analytics Exensio software, which resulted in accelerated growth in revenues from software through 2019.  
Starting in 2020, after our acquisition of Cimetrix Incorporated (“Cimetrix”), we began providing software products based 
on open standards for equipment control and connectivity to equipment manufacturers and factories. 

We released our first eProbe tool in 2015, the second generation in 2019, and the third generation in late 2022. The 

improvements in the third generation included:  

• 

• 

• 

higher resolution and improved beam vector targeting, enabling use for leading-edge, middle-of-line applications; 

higher throughput; and 

better manufacturability and repeatable column performance. 

5 

Table of Contents 

Industry Background 

Rapid technological innovation with increasingly shorter product life cycles has fueled the economic growth of the 
semiconductor industry since the days of the PC revolution. IC companies have historically ramped production slowly, 
produced at high volume once a product gained market acceptance, and slowly reduced production volume when price 
and demand started to decrease near the end of the product’s life cycle. Today there are many different business models 
across the semiconductor industry: products that follow the traditional life cycle just described, products targeted towards 
fast-moving  market  segments  like  Internet  of  Things –  which  utilize  mature  process  nodes  and  require  a  fast  ramp  to 
volume with a relatively short life cycle, and products focused on long term market segments like automotive and industrial 
where product life cycles can last a decade or longer. There is a lot of variation across these business models depending 
on  the  level  of  design  complexity  and  the  maturity  of  the  process  node  used  for  product  implementation.  Processors, 
memory  and  field-programmable  gate  arrays  (“FPGA”)  continue  to  leverage  the  most  advanced  process  nodes  and 
experience significant  challenges  to  achieve  competitive  initial  yields  and  optimized  performance.  Some  products  and 
market  segments,  however,  are  content  to  utilize  older  process  nodes.  Regardless  of  the  process  node  used  for 
implementation or how long the product will be sold in the market, success for every semiconductor company is predicated, 
among other things, on fast product yield ramp and the ability to optimize manufacturing and test metrics, such as yield 
reclamation, product quality, and test efficiency, throughout a product’s life cycle. Thus, technologies or capabilities that 
can accelerate yield ramp, improve product quality, and optimize production efficiencies are highly sought after because 
they typically lead to cost reduction and revenue generation concurrently, causing a leveraged effect on profitability. 

Technology and Intellectual Property Protection 

Our  success  is  largely  dependent  upon  our  proprietary  software.  We  believe  the  creative  skills  and  technological 
ability of our personnel, product enhancements, and new product development are necessary to maintaining our position 
as a leading provider. We rely primarily on trade secret rights, copyright laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual 
agreements to protect our software.  

In addition, our success is dependent on various inventions we have made and we seek to protect certain of our IP 
under patent laws. As of December 31, 2023, we held 115 U.S. patents, with expiration dates on issued patents ranging 
from 2024 through 2042. We intend to prepare additional patent applications when we feel it is beneficial. Some of the 
technology we protect by patent includes elements of our CV and DFI systems and inventions related to AI/ML. 

We  protect  our  trademarks  with  registration  of  marks,  including  Characterization  Vehicle,  Cimetrix,  CV,  eProbe, 
Exensio, pdFasTest, PDF Solutions, and the PDF Solutions and Cimetrix logos. We have common law rights to additional 
trademarks, including ALPS, DFI, DirectProbe, DirectScan, Fire, and Sapience.  

We  enter  into  confidentiality  and  inventions  assignment  agreements  with  our  employees  and  confidentiality  and 
license agreements with our customers and the various parties we partner with to resell, distribute, and, in some cases, 
integrate our products. Further, we limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary 
information.  

Third  parties  could  in  any  case  develop  competing  technologies  that  include  similar  functionality  or  features,  or 
otherwise are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark 
and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries where we operate. Our business could 
suffer significantly if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. 

In  addition,  through  yield,  performance,  and  reliability  improvement  services  over  more  than  20 years,  we  have 
accumulated a vast library of physical IP in the form of test structures. As part of our DFI and CV systems, our engineers 
create  designs  of  experiments  (“DOEs”)  and  layouts  for  targeted  fail  modes.  We  have  also  developed  electrical 
measurement  hardware  tools  and  proprietary  extraction,  design,  and  analysis  software.  In  addition,  our  technology 
embodies  many  production-proven  and  patented  algorithms.  Further,  our  IP  includes  proven  methodologies  that  our 
implementation teams use as guidelines to drive our customers’ use of our technology. We strive to continually enhance 
our  core  technologies  through  the  codification  of  knowledge  that  we  gain  in  the  use  of  our  products  and  delivery  of 
services. 

6 

