FELLOW STOCKHOLDERS, 

PDF Solutions was able to sustain revenue growth in 2023 even when the short-term dynamic of the industry is 
challenging. Full year 2023 revenue reached $165.8 million versus $148.5 million in 2022, a 12% year-over-year
increase, and a new record. This is most remarkable when considering that the semiconductor industry overall saw a
total revenue contraction of 11%. Other financial accomplishments in 2023 include: 

•  Analytics revenues of $152.1 million, up 17% over last year. 
•  Record total full year revenues of $165.8 million, up 12% over last year. 
•  GAAP gross margin of 69% and Non-GAAP gross margin of 73%. 
•  GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.08 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.73. 
•  Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments (as of December 31, 2023) of $135.5 million. 

We believe two metrics are particularly insightful for assessing PDF Solutions’ long-term potential: backlog and the 
percentage of our overall revenues from analytics. Our backlog at the end of the year was $230 million, or equivalent 
to nearly 1.4-years of total revenue. Analytics revenue for full-year 2023 reached $152.1 million, an increase of 17% 
compared to 2022, and greater than our total revenue in 2022. Accounting for 92% of 2023 total revenue, analytics 
is now the dominant component of our overall business.  

We  believe  the  growth  of  analytics  revenue  is  the  result  of  our  commitment  to  develop  an  integrated  solution 
platform designed to be cloud-enabled, secure, and scalable. Our customers can select PDF Solutions for a specific 
use  case,  then  progressively  expand  to  additional  use  cases  while  leveraging  the  common  components  of  the 
platform, such as data model and API, and without being concerned with new integration to their manufacturing 
environment and application infrastructure.  

At the highly successful 2023 PDF Solutions Users Conference, customers explained how they have used our products 
and platform to revolutionize their technology development, manufacturing operations, and product quality. They 
described their use of our design-aware inspection to accelerate bringing up new products and processes, of our 
guided analytics AI solution for product engineering to find yield issues faster, of our Sapience Manufacturing Hub 
to enable manufacturing digital transformation by connecting to the rest of the enterprise, and one customer even 
reported  a  25%  reduction  in  operator  labor  after  using  our  products  for  test  automation  in  addition  to  OEE 
improvement. 

We are supporting the transformation of the semiconductor industry as it experiences major shifts: 

•  Devices and nodes are changing to new architecture. Our DFI system is helping leading foundries find yield 

issues at both the middle-of-line and the metallization layers.  

CORPORATE INFORMATION

ATE INFORMATION

MANAGEMENT TEAM 

John K. Kibarian, Ph.D.  

Chief Executive Officer,   

r,   

President and CoFounder 

Adnan Raza  

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Joseph R. Bronson  

Joseph R. Bronson  

Principal and Chief Executive Officer, 

Principal and Chief Executive Off

Lead Independent Director, 

The Bronson Group, LLC;

Group LLC; Director, Graph Audio

PDF Solutions, Inc.;  

Chair of the Board, GraphAudio, Inc.

icer, Bronson 

; Former 

Executive Vice President, Finance  

Nancy Erba  

Nancy Erba  

and Chief Financial Officer  

Chief Financial Officer, Infinera Corporation

Chief Financial Officer, Infinera Corporation

Kimon Michaels, Ph.D.  

Executive Vice President, 

Michael B. Gustafson  

Michael B. Gustafson  

Executive Chairman and Independent Board 

Executive Chairman and Independent Board 

Products  and Solutions and Co

Director, Druva, Inc.;   

Director, Druva, Inc.;   

Founder 

Director, Matterport, Inc. 

Director, Everspin Technologies, Inc. 

Andrzej Strojwas, Ph.D.  

Chief Technology Officer

John K. Kibarian, Ph.D.

John K. Kibarian, Ph.D.

Chief Executive Officer, 

Chief Executive Officer, 

President and CoFounder

President and CoFounder

Ye Jane Li

Ye Jane Li

; 

; 

ANNUAL MEETING  

ANNUAL MEETING  

OF STOCKHOLDERS  

OF STOCKHOLDERS  

Tuesday, June 13, 2023  

Tuesday, June 14, 2022  

PDF Solutions, Inc.   

PDF Solutions, Inc.   

2858 De La Cruz Boulevard 

2858 De La Cruz Boulevard 

Santa Clara, CA 95050 

Santa Clara, CA 95050 

EXCHANGE AND STOCK  

EXCHANGE AND STOCK  

MARKET LISTING 

MARKET LISTING 

Nasdaq Stock Market: PDFS 

Nasdaq Stock Market: PDFS 

TRANSFER AGENT AND  

TRANSFER AGENT AND  

REGISTRAR   

REGISTRAR   

Computershare	Investor	Services	

Computershare, Inc. 

150	Royall	St.	

462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600 

Canton, MA	02021

Louisville, KY 40202 

LEGAL COUNSEL  

LEGAL COUNSEL  

Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP 

Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP 

1000 Marsh Road  

1000 Marsh Road  

Menlo Park, CA 94025 

Menlo Park, CA 94025 

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 

BPM LLP  

BPM LLP  

10 Almaden Boulevard  

10 Almaden Boulevard  

Suite 1000  

Suite 1000  

San Jose, CA 95113 

San Jose, CA 95113 

INVESTOR RELATIONS  

INVESTOR RELATIONS  

PDF Solutions, Inc.   

PDF Solutions, Inc.   

2858 De La Cruz Blvd  

2858 De La Cruz Blvd  

Santa Clara, California 95050 

Santa Clara, California 95050 

Tel: +1 408 280 7900  

Tel: +1 408 280 7900  

info@pdf.com  

info@pdf.com  

http://www.pdf.com 

http://www.pdf.com 

• 

•  Advanced  packages  are  now  made  of  various  components  or  chiplets  organized  in  three  dimensional 
packages. Our AI/ML applications are designed to improve product quality, yield, and operations as the 
complexity of test increases due in part to this advanced packaging, helping to not only build AI models but 
also deploy them online to support the accurate testing of millions of chips. 
Semiconductor supply chains are becoming more global and complex. Our Sapience Manufacturing Hub 
helps  provide  more  sophisticated  integration  within  the  enterprise  and  across  supply  chain  partners  by 
linking SAP's ERP system to the factory systems. 
Sustainability is increasingly a focus area for the semiconductor industry.  We believe we have an important 
role  in  helping  to  minimize  the  environmental  footprint  of  the  semiconductor  industry.  Our  innovative 
solutions are designed to speed the move to smaller nodes, to improve semiconductor yield, and to improve 
operational efficiencies of the manufacturing facilities. 

• 

When we look to the progress we made in 2023 and consider the opportunities in front of us on our mission to 
become the leading analytics software provider for the global semiconductor and electronics supply chain, we truly 
appreciate the effort of our employees, contractors, customers, and partners that have positioned PDF Solutions for 
the future. 

Sincerely,

John Kibarian 
Chief Executive Officer, President, and Co-Founder 

PDF’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including any changes in the marketplace for semiconductor analytics products, including the introduction of 

PDF’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including any changes in the marketplace for semiconductor analytics products, including the introduction of 

products or services competitive with those of PDF. The forwardlooking statements made in this Report are made as of the date hereof, and PDF does not assume any 

products or services competitive with those of PDF. The forwardlooking statements made in this Report are made as of the date hereof, and PDF does not assume any 

obligation to update such statements nor the reasons why actual results could differ materially from those projected in such statements.

obligation to update such statements nor the reasons why actual results could differ materially from those projected in such statements.

© 2023 PDF Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks used herein are the property of PDF Solutions, Inc. or its affiliates. 

© 2022 PDF Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks used herein are the property of PDF Solutions, Inc. or its affiliates. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549 

(Mark One) 
 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 

Form 10 - K 

or 

 

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from               to                

000 - 31311 
(Commission file number) 

PDF SOLUTIONS, INC. 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Delaware 
(State or other jurisdiction of 
Incorporation or organization) 

2858 De La Cruz Blvd. 
Santa Clara, California 
(Address of Registrant’s principal executive offices)

25 - 1701361 
(I.R.S. Employer 
Identification No.) 

95050 
(Zip Code) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

(408) 280 - 7900 
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 

Title of each class 
Common Stock, $0.00015 par value 

Trading Symbol(s)
PDFS

Name of each exchange on which registered
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. 

Yes      No  

Yes      No  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the 
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 
90 days. 

Yes      No  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 

232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). 

Yes      No  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging 
growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b - 2 of the 
Exchange Act. 
 Large accelerated filer 
 Non-accelerated  filer 

 Accelerated filer 
 Smaller reporting company 
 Emerging growth company 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised 

financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over 

financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report.  

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the 

correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.  

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the 

registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D - 1 (b).  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b - 2 of the Act).  Yes      No  

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $1.3 billion as of the last business day of the Registrant’s most 

recently completed second fiscal quarter, based upon the closing sale price on the Nasdaq Global Market reported for such date. Shares of Common Stock held by each 
officer and director and by each person who owns 10% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. 
This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes. 

There were 38,581,819 shares of the Registrant’s Common Stock outstanding as of February 23, 2024. 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days from December 31, 2023. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PART I 

Item 1.  Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 1A.  Risk Factors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 1C.  Cybersecurity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 2.  Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

PART II 

Item 5.  Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 

Equity Securities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 6.  Reserved  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 9B.  Other Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 9C.  Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 11.  Executive Compensation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters . . .
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

PART III 

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Item 16.  Form 10 - K Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Signatures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

PART IV 

Page

4
16
34
34
37
37
37

38
39
39
52
53
88
88
89
89

90
90
90
90
90

91
95
96

2 

 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This Annual Report on Form 10 - K, particularly in Item 1 “Business” and Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of 
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: 
expectations about the effectiveness of our business and technology strategies; expectations regarding global economic 
trends;  the  impact  of  rising  global  inflation  and  increased  interest  rates;  expectations  regarding  recent  and  future 
acquisitions; current semiconductor industry trends; expectations of the success and market acceptance of our intellectual 
property and our solutions; the continuing impact of macroeconomic conditions on the semiconductor industry and our 
business;  supply  chain  disruptions;  possible  impacts  from  the  evolving  trade  regulatory  environment  and  geopolitical 
tensions; and our ability to obtain additional financing if needed. Our actual results could differ materially from those 
projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, risks and uncertainties discussed in this 
Form 10 - K,  especially  those  contained  in  Item 1A  of  this  Form 10 - K.  The  words  “may,”  “anticipate,”  “plan,” 
“continue,” “could,” “projected,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” and “assume,” the negative of these terms and similar 
expressions  are  used  to  identify  forward-looking  statements.  All  forward-looking  statements  and  information  included 
herein is given as of the filing date of this Form 10 - K with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and based 
on information available to us at the time of this report and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from 
these  forward-looking  statements.  Unless  required  by  law,  we  undertake  no  obligation  to  update  publicly  any  such 
forward-looking statements. 

The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto 
included  in  this  Annual  Report  on  Form 10 - K.  All  references  to  fiscal year  apply  to  our  fiscal year  that  ends  on 
December 31.  All  references  to  “we,”  “us,”  “our,”  “PDF,”  “PDF  Solutions”  or  “the  Company”  refer  to  PDF 
Solutions, Inc. 

3 

 
 
Table of Contents 

Item 1. Business 

PART I 

We  provide  comprehensive  data  solutions  designed  to  empower  organizations  across  the  semiconductor  and 
electronics  ecosystems  to  improve  the  yield  and  quality  of  their  products  and  operational  efficiency  for  increased 
profitability. We derive revenues from two sources, Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. Our offerings contribute to 
Analytics  revenue  through  contract  fees  for  on-premise  software  and  hardware  system  licenses,  software-as-a-service 
(“SaaS”), and other professional services. Certain of our Characterization services engagements contribute to Integrated 
Yield Ramp revenue through contract fees and a value-based, variable fee or royalty, which we call Gainshare. We are 
headquartered in Santa Clara, California and also operate worldwide with offices in Canada, China, France, Germany, 
Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. 

Business Overview 

Our customers include Fortune 500 companies across the semiconductor and electronics ecosystem. These companies 
use our products and services to achieve various goals depending on whether they are integrated device manufacturers 
(“IDMs”),  fabless  semiconductor  companies,  foundries,  equipment  manufacturers,  electronics  manufacturing  suppliers 
(“EMS”), original device manufacturers (“ODMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (“OSATs”), or system 
houses. For example, our foundry customers generate and analyze key manufacturing data using our solutions to shorten 
the time necessary for technology development and to provide their fabless customers with a higher yielding process with 
improved electrical performance, which are both critical metrics for market success. Higher yields in less time can also 
mean less total raw materials and process runs, which help lower customers’ total cost and minimize environmental impact. 
Also, equipment manufacturers and factories use our connectivity products to implement evolving industry standards for 
their equipment or operations, respectively, with required quality and stability. By way of further example, our IDM and 
fabless customers use our solutions to generate unique, differentiated data that can be analyzed with our machine learning 
(“ML”) and artificial intelligence (“AI”) algorithms to predict downstream manufacturing issues, resulting in shorter time 
for  designs  to  meet  performance  requirements  with  fewer  iterations  and  faster  time-to-market.  For  final  example,  our 
foundry and OSAT customers use the AI and ML applications of our software to optimize for process control, assembly, 
and/or test. 

Our mission is to provide innovative solutions to create, access, and organize data to enable analysis and control for 
semiconductor and electronics companies to achieve better time-to-market, yields, quality, and operational efficiencies. 
Our strategy to achieve this is as follows: 

•  Offer a Common, Flexible Platform for a Broad Group of Customers Across the Supply Chain. As semiconductor 
and electronics products are made with the efforts of equipment manufacturers, front-end foundries, chip and 
system designers, design automation, intellectual property (“IP”) providers, and OSATs, there is a need to analyze 
data across this whole chain to optimize yields, operational efficiencies, time to market, quality, and reliability. 
Our  comprehensive  platform  is  designed  based  on  industry  standards  and  integrated  with  leading  solutions 
providers to enable these different participants to analyze the relevant end-to-end data in near real-time, with 
cloud  or  on-premise  data  stores  from  10s  to  100s  of  terabytes  (“TBs”)  and  flexible  configurations  for  IDM, 
foundry, fabless, and OSAT specific needs. Our ML solutions combine professional services with our Exensio 
software to further enable our customers to push their analytics “to the edge” of their global supply chains and 
shift  the  analysis  and  decision-making  processes  closer  to  where  their  data  is  being  generated.  We  believe 
enabling  edge  analytics  will  further  increase  our  customers’  ability  to  improve  product  yield,  quality, 
performance, and profitability, and therefore, should drive the market for our products and services. 

•  Drive Tool-Level Software Installations to Create an Infrastructure of Connected Equipment and Enable Smart 
Factories. We believe that driving installation of our Exensio and Cimetrix software products at the tool level 
will  help  provide  an  infrastructure  of  connected  equipment  and  help  to  enable  smart  factories.  Our  Cimetrix 
products are based on open standards for equipment control and connectivity to equipment manufacturers and 
factories, which we believe will be more in demand in the smart manufacturing era. Further, we believe that the 

4 

Table of Contents 

benefits from integration between analytics on equipment, the factory, and in the cloud will provide synergies 
with our existing end-to-end analytics offerings. 

•  Create Differentiated Data Sources for Better Analytics. Historically, companies have only used data that was 
generated  from  their  manufacturing  and  test  process  to  drive  improvements.  We  offer  unique  IP  (such  as 
Characterization Vehicle® test chips, also branded CV® test chips) that is not part of an integrated circuit’s (“IC”) 
functionality, but significantly improves the manufacturing process by improving yield learning and reducing 
time to market. Also, our Design-for-Inspection™ system (also branded DFI™ system) identifies blockers that 
impact product yield and quality up to months earlier than any other hardware- or software-based methodology 
from proprietary e-beam measurement of product layout or provided on-chip instrumentation. We believe that in 
the More-than-Moore (“MtM”) era, the differentiated data we provide can play an important role in enabling our 
customers to bring new products to market faster and with higher quality and performance, and, ultimately, more 
profitability. 

•  Collaborate with Other Industry Leaders to Bring Additional Unique Data to Our Platform and Enable New and 
Differentiated Applications. We believe that the value we bring to semiconductor manufacturing can be leveraged 
with  additional  data  and  through  differentiated  applications.  For  example,  in  2023,  we  started  offering  an 
enterprise application integration module called Sapience™ Manufacturing Hub, which is designed to collect and 
unify data from enterprise applications, such as manufacturing execution systems (“MES”), enterprise resource 
planning  systems  (“ERP”)  like  SAP  S/4HANA®,  and  our  Exensio  software,  and  make  such  data  available 
through a central interface. Also in 2023, working with Siemens Digital Industries Software, we started offering 
two new Exensio modules, Exensio AIM Scan Analytics and Exensio AIM Scan Systematics Diagnostics, which 
are  designed  to  enablediagnostic  accuracy  and  efficiency  of  fail  mode  to  help  our  customers  that  also  use 
Siemens’s  Tessent  software  determine  the  electrical  and  physical  failing  locations  for  product  and  process 
improvements. Building relationships with other industry leaders is intended to provide more ways for mutual 
customers  to  leverage  their  process  and  product  data  as  part  of  their  Industry  4.0  initiatives.  Differentiated 
applications that make use of this shared data are designed to provide unique insights to help customers achieve 
sustained profitability in their manufacturing. 

Brief History 

PDF  Solutions  was  incorporated  in  Pennsylvania  in  November 1992,  and  we  reincorporated  in  California  in 
November 1995. In July 2000, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in July 2001, we completed an initial public offering. 
Our shares of common stock are currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “PDFS”. 

From  2000  through  2009,  we  expanded  our  technology  footprint  and  our  operations  in  various  countries  through 
acquisitions. From 2009 to 2019, we primarily focused on the pervasive application of our technology to leading edge 
logic manufacturing and achieving yield targets with our clients that maximized Gainshare royalties. In 2013, we leveraged 
our  extensive  experience  in  yield  simulation  software  and  CV®  test  chip  development  and  started  research  and 
development on an e-beam solution for non-contact, inline electrical inspection and process control for wafer inspection. 

In a parallel effort, starting in 2014, we re-architected our point-solution software tools into a new generation, highly-

integrated data analytics Exensio software, which resulted in accelerated growth in revenues from software through 2019.  
Starting in 2020, after our acquisition of Cimetrix Incorporated (“Cimetrix”), we began providing software products based 
on open standards for equipment control and connectivity to equipment manufacturers and factories. 

We released our first eProbe tool in 2015, the second generation in 2019, and the third generation in late 2022. The 

improvements in the third generation included:  

• 

• 

• 

higher resolution and improved beam vector targeting, enabling use for leading-edge, middle-of-line applications; 

higher throughput; and 

better manufacturability and repeatable column performance. 

5 

Table of Contents 

Industry Background 

Rapid technological innovation with increasingly shorter product life cycles has fueled the economic growth of the 
semiconductor industry since the days of the PC revolution. IC companies have historically ramped production slowly, 
produced at high volume once a product gained market acceptance, and slowly reduced production volume when price 
and demand started to decrease near the end of the product’s life cycle. Today there are many different business models 
across the semiconductor industry: products that follow the traditional life cycle just described, products targeted towards 
fast-moving  market  segments  like  Internet  of  Things –  which  utilize  mature  process  nodes  and  require  a  fast  ramp  to 
volume with a relatively short life cycle, and products focused on long term market segments like automotive and industrial 
where product life cycles can last a decade or longer. There is a lot of variation across these business models depending 
on  the  level  of  design  complexity  and  the  maturity  of  the  process  node  used  for  product  implementation.  Processors, 
memory  and  field-programmable  gate  arrays  (“FPGA”)  continue  to  leverage  the  most  advanced  process  nodes  and 
experience significant  challenges  to  achieve  competitive  initial  yields  and  optimized  performance.  Some  products  and 
market  segments,  however,  are  content  to  utilize  older  process  nodes.  Regardless  of  the  process  node  used  for 
implementation or how long the product will be sold in the market, success for every semiconductor company is predicated, 
among other things, on fast product yield ramp and the ability to optimize manufacturing and test metrics, such as yield 
reclamation, product quality, and test efficiency, throughout a product’s life cycle. Thus, technologies or capabilities that 
can accelerate yield ramp, improve product quality, and optimize production efficiencies are highly sought after because 
they typically lead to cost reduction and revenue generation concurrently, causing a leveraged effect on profitability. 

Technology and Intellectual Property Protection 

Our  success  is  largely  dependent  upon  our  proprietary  software.  We  believe  the  creative  skills  and  technological 
ability of our personnel, product enhancements, and new product development are necessary to maintaining our position 
as a leading provider. We rely primarily on trade secret rights, copyright laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual 
agreements to protect our software.  

In addition, our success is dependent on various inventions we have made and we seek to protect certain of our IP 
under patent laws. As of December 31, 2023, we held 115 U.S. patents, with expiration dates on issued patents ranging 
from 2024 through 2042. We intend to prepare additional patent applications when we feel it is beneficial. Some of the 
technology we protect by patent includes elements of our CV and DFI systems and inventions related to AI/ML. 

We  protect  our  trademarks  with  registration  of  marks,  including  Characterization  Vehicle,  Cimetrix,  CV,  eProbe, 
Exensio, pdFasTest, PDF Solutions, and the PDF Solutions and Cimetrix logos. We have common law rights to additional 
trademarks, including ALPS, DFI, DirectProbe, DirectScan, Fire, and Sapience.  

We  enter  into  confidentiality  and  inventions  assignment  agreements  with  our  employees  and  confidentiality  and 
license agreements with our customers and the various parties we partner with to resell, distribute, and, in some cases, 
integrate our products. Further, we limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary 
information.  

Third  parties  could  in  any  case  develop  competing  technologies  that  include  similar  functionality  or  features,  or 
otherwise are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark 
and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries where we operate. Our business could 
suffer significantly if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. 

In  addition,  through  yield,  performance,  and  reliability  improvement  services  over  more  than  20 years,  we  have 
accumulated a vast library of physical IP in the form of test structures. As part of our DFI and CV systems, our engineers 
create  designs  of  experiments  (“DOEs”)  and  layouts  for  targeted  fail  modes.  We  have  also  developed  electrical 
measurement  hardware  tools  and  proprietary  extraction,  design,  and  analysis  software.  In  addition,  our  technology 
embodies  many  production-proven  and  patented  algorithms.  Further,  our  IP  includes  proven  methodologies  that  our 
implementation teams use as guidelines to drive our customers’ use of our technology. We strive to continually enhance 
our  core  technologies  through  the  codification  of  knowledge  that  we  gain  in  the  use  of  our  products  and  delivery  of 
services. 

6 

Table of Contents 

Products and Services 

Products 

The primary software products and software and hardware systems of our platform include the following: 

Exensio Software. Our Exensio software products address the big data manufacturing challenge of today’s advanced 
process  nodes  and  highly  integrated  products,  by  providing  a  common  environment  throughout  the  supply  chain  for 
different  data  types,  including  inline  and  end-of-line  metrology,  yield,  parametric,  performance,  manufacturing 
consumables, tool-level sensor data, test floor data, logistical data, as well as custom data types. Exensio products are 
designed to enable real-time rapid diagnosis and understanding of key manufacturing and test metrics during both inline 
and end-of-line wafer processing, helping customers reduce product variability and cost simultaneously. By integrating 
silos of data and applying AI and ML, Exensio products resolve the limitation of local optimization and provide better 
visibility across the entire production process, reducing the time it takes to make critical decisions that can drive higher 
product yield, quality and reliability. Our collaboration with strategic partners is intended to also integrate data from those 
partners’ products to make it available in Exensio and also to develop new applications to inter-operate with those products 
and enhance the value to mutual customers. For example, in 2023, we started offering Sapience™ Manufacturing Hub, 
which  provides  a  single,  common  connectivity  platform  between  enterprise  applications,  such  as  MES,  ERP,  and  our 
Exensio software. Sapience Manufacturing Hub enables advanced applications – including those for top management – 
that benefit from more real-time and detailed insight into manufacturing. Our Exensio Foundry Product Costing module, 
which leverages Sapience Manufacturing Hub, provides more accurate insight into the gap between plan costs and actual 
costs, enabling actions to improve profitability. Exensio Foundry Product Costing module integrates with SAP S4/HANA 
due to our collaboration with SAP SE to enable this capability. 

Exensio software is available as either an on-premise license or SaaS and is offered in four main, separately-offered 
Exensio products targeting the needs of the customer’s business model: Exensio IDM, Exensio Fabless, Exensio Foundry, 
and  Exensio  OSAT.  Each  of  these  products  are  comprised  of  two  or  more  modules  to  provide  specific  capabilities  to 
address a particular type of company’s needs and requirements; however, there are common features, functionality, and 
purpose across some of the key modules as follows: 

•  Manufacturing  Analytics –  This  module  uses  our  proprietary  database  schema  to  store  collected  data  in  a 
common,  unified  environment  with  a  consistent  view.  For  example,  product  engineers  use  it  to  identify  and 
analyze  production  yield,  performance,  reliability  and  other  issues.  Elements  of  this  module  are  designed  to 
handle very large and complex data sets that are commonplace in the semiconductor industry. To support the 
multi-dimensional product requirements of our customers, the powerful, interactive visualization and analysis 
capabilities in this product are highly flexible and user-configurable. 

•  Process Control – This module provides failure detection and classification (“FDC”) capabilities for monitoring, 
alarming,  and  control  of  manufacturing  tool  sets.  These  capabilities  include  proprietary  data  collection  and 
analysis  of  tool  sensor  trace  data  and  summary  indicators  designed  to  rapidly  identify  sources  of  process 
variations and manufacturing excursions. When used together with Manufacturing Analytics and related modules, 
the accretive data mining and correlation capabilities are designed to enable identification of tool level sources 
of yield loss and process variation and enable predictive and proactive optimization decisions for process control, 
process adjustments, preventive maintenance scheduling, tool corrective actions, wafer dispatching, and wafer 
level and final test to impact end of line product yield, performance, and reliability. 

•  Test  Operations –  This  module  provides  comprehensive  data  collection  and  analysis  capabilities  for  data 
generated  during  manufacturing  test  operations  designed  to  optimize  test  operations  management  overall, 
including  improving  test  productivity,  performing  part  average  test,  supporting  test  floor  operations,  and 
implementing adaptive test. Test Operations is also designed to provide predictive insights based on proprietary 
analytics  during  test,  assembly  and  packaging  to  maximize  the  efficiency  of  test  operations,  productivity 
improvements and yield reclamation. 

7 

Table of Contents 

•  Assembly  Operations –  This  module  provides  the  capability  to  link  assembly  and  packaging  data  with  other 
product lifecycle data, including fabrication and characterization data, across the product life cycle. Data sources 
could include manufacturing, wafer acceptance test, wafer sort, test and assembly, final test, and field use. The 
proprietary  data  linkage  enabled  by  Assembly  Operations  is  also  designed  to  enable  device  manufacturers  to 
maintain full traceability of their finished products back to the source wafer without the need for Electronic Chip 
IDs (“ECIDs”). This capability is becoming an essential requirement for safety-critical market segments such as 
automotive and military-aerospace. 

Design-for-Inspection  System.  Our  DFI™  system,  which  we  have  provided  under  a  lease  arrangement  to  some 
customers,  leverages  our  production-proven  design  and  analysis  infrastructure  and  is  designed  to  enable  customers  to 
achieve non-contact, inline electrical inspection of either our proprietary on-chip instruments or their product chip layout 
structures. The electrical measurements augment and enhance existing inline defect inspection and metrology methods for 
more  effective  process  control  and  inline,  direct  inspection  of  product  wafers.  The  DirectScan  application  of  the  DFI 
system includes our proprietary Exensio Characterization and Fire™ layout analysis software and the eProbe® non-contact 
e-beam  tool.  The  original  application  of  the  DFI  system  also  included  our  on-chip  instruments.  These  elements  are 
described as follows: 

•  Proprietary  Software –  Our  Fire  module  is  designed  to  analyze  IC  product  layout  features  to  help  determine 
which parts of the product layout to inspect. Our Exensio Characterization module is designed to analyze the 
billions of measurements collected using the eProbe tool. As part of the system offering, we generally use the 
Characterization  module  to  provide  our  customers  analysis  services,  a  summary  of  our  findings,  and 
recommendations. 

•  DFI  On-Chip  Instruments –  Our  on-chip  measurement  instruments  are  tuned  to  capture  key  features  of  our 
customers’ product layouts, including those identified using the Fire module. As part of the system offering, we 
generally provide design services to create these instruments. These DFI instruments are designed to be placed 
in test chips, scribe lines, or in product die without any area penalty, and to exhibit specific electrical responses. 

• 

eProbe® Non-Contact E-Beam Tool – Our eProbe e-beam tools are designed for contactless measurement of the 
electrical response of the DFI instruments and suitable product layout structures. As part of the system offering, 
we generally provide tool support services to customers to operate this tool. The third generation tool includes 
advances in accuracy and sensitivity and, in addition to enabling DFI on-chip instruments to be used for inline 
control for leading-edge semiconductor process nodes, is designed to enable customers to see defects in product 
wafers inline within acceptable queue time and much higher throughput. 

Characterization Vehicle System (also branded as our CV™ System). Our CV system is a combination of CV test 
chips, hardware to test such products, software to analyze the test results, and related services. This system is designed to 
accelerate  the efficiency of yield  learning by  shortening  the  learning  cycle,  learning more  per  cycle,  and reducing  the 
number  of  silicon  wafers  required  in  manufacturing  processes.  This  system includes  physical  IP  in  the  form  of  test 
structures and DOEs that are tuned to our customers’ product and/or process specifics, tester hardware, data analysis, and 
training. The primary software and hardware products included in the CV system are as follows: 

•  CV™ Test Chips – Our proprietary test chips are designed by our professional engineers using our proprietary 
Fire  software.  These  test  chips  are  run  through  a  customer’s  manufacturing  process,  with  intentional  process 
modifications, to  provide unique,  differentiated  data  to  explore  the  effects  of  potential  process  improvements 
given natural manufacturing variations. Our custom-designed CV test chips are optimized for our test hardware 
and analysis software and include DOEs tuned to each customer’s process. Types of CV test chips include: 

  Our full-reticle and shared-reticle CV test chips are designed to provide a fast-learning cycle and are 
fully  integrated  with  third-party  failure  analysis  and  inspection  tools  for  a  complete  diagnosis  to 

8 

Table of Contents 

understand root causes. Our full-reticle CV test chips use a shortened process flow to provide a faster 
learning cycle for specific process modules. 

  Our Scribe CV test chips are inserted directly on customers’ product wafers to collect data about critical 

layers. 

  Our DirectProbe™ CV test chips are designed to enable ultra-fast yield learning for new product designs 
by allowing our customers to measure components of actual product layout and identify yield issues. 

• 

pdFasTest® Electrical Tester – Our proprietary electrical test hardware is optimized to quickly test our CV test 
chips,  enabling fast  defect  and parametric characterization of manufacturing processes. As  part of  the system 
offering, we provide test programs for each CV test chip that are tuned to the customer’s process. This automated 
system provides parallel functional testing, thus minimizing the time required to perform millions of electrical 
measurements to test our CV test chips. We provide services to analyze the unique, differentiated data output of 
this tester using the Exensio Characterization software to provide actionable insights to our customers. 

•  Exensio Characterization software – This module, which is designed to integrate seamlessly with the rest of the 
Exensio software, collects the data generated from our CV test products, generating models of the performance 
effects of process variations on these design building blocks. As part of the system offering, we also offer analysis 
services, if the customer elects not to do such analysis itself. 

Cimetrix® Software Products. Our Cimetrix software products enable equipment manufacturers in the semiconductor 
and electronics industries to provide standard interfaces on their products for efficient equipment communication, control, 
and data collection. Numerous industry standards have been established for equipment connectivity and control, including 
the  SEMI  (Semiconductor  Equipment  and  Materials  International)  defined  SECS  (SEMI  Equipment  Communication 
Standard), GEM (Generic Equipment Model), GEM300, and EDA (equipment data acquisition) standards. Our Cimetrix 
products are designed to fully support these industry standards to enable equipment manufacturers to implement robust, 
turnkey support for these connectivity and control standards without needing to invest engineering resources to develop 
their own interfaces to these standards. Factories that purchase manufacturing equipment enabled with Cimetrix-supported 
interfaces, benefit from consistent and robust implementations of industry standards, enabling faster and more efficient 
implementation of smart manufacturing initiatives that depend on the collection and analysis of manufacturing and product 
data. Cimetrix products are sold via perpetual licenses and typically sold as part of a software development kit (“SDK”) 
that helps equipment manufacturers implement them quickly. We charge a one-time fee per equipment product type for 
the SDK license and a one-time fee for each piece of equipment shipped that includes the Cimetrix runtime license. 

•  Equipment  Factory  Connectivity –  Our  products  for  equipment  factory  connectivity  primarily  include  the 

following: 

  Cimetrix CIMConnect™ is a SEMI SECS/GEM interface to the factory host for automated control and 
data  collection.  The  Cimetrix  CIMConnect  module  supports  multiple-host  interfaces  simultaneously, 
which allows customers to support legacy, custom, and GEM interfaces. Cimetrix CIMConnect is used 
in semiconductor wafer fabrication, semiconductor back-end (test, assembly, and packaging), PV, HB-
LED,  disk  drive,  flat  panel  displays,  printed  circuit  boards  and  other  electronics  manufacturing.  In 
addition to enabling the implementation of the SEMI SECS/GEM standards E4, E5, E30, E37, E172, 
and E173, Cimetrix CIMConnect also supports SEMI PV2 (PVECI), A3 (PCBECI), and HB4 (HB-LED 
ECI) standards. 

  Cimetrix CIM300™ is a GEM interface for 300mm equipment using SEMI standards, including E39, 
E40,  E87,  E90,  E94,  E116,  E148,  and  E157.  These  SEMI  standards  allow  for  the  full  automation 
required in manufacturing 300mm wafers. Cimetrix CIM300 manages the interdependencies between 
the  standards  and  simplifies  complex  scenarios  for  easy  implementation  of  the  standards.  These 
GEM300  standards  are  required  for  full  automation  in  manufacturing  of  300mm  wafers.  Cimetrix 

9 

Table of Contents 

CIM300 works with Cimetrix CIMConnect to implement the GEM300 and the original GEM suite of 
standards. 

  Cimetrix CIMPortal™ Plus is an interface for EDA, also known as Interface A. The EDA standards are 
E120,  E125,  E132,  E134,  E138,  E147,  and  E164.  Cimetrix  CIMPortal  Plus  implements  the  EDA 
standards in a flexible architecture that collects data from multiple sources and routes the data to multiple 
clients simultaneously. Factories can use the data gathered through EDA interfaces for FDC, run-to-run 
advanced  process  control,  equipment  health  monitoring,  chamber/tool  matching,  predictive 
maintenance, virtual metrology, diagnostics, and many other equipment-related analytical applications. 

•  Equipment Factory Connectivity Testing – We provide the following products for testing the interfaces developed 
using  our  equipment  factory  connectivity  products:  Cimetrix  EquipmentTest™,  for  testing  and  validating 
compliance with the GEM and GEM300 standards, Cimetrix EDATester™, for testing and validating compliance 
with the EDA/Interface A standards, and performance testing of the interface, and Cimetrix ECCE Plus™ for 
quick testing of the EDA/Interface A interface. 

•  Equipment Control – Our equipment control product is the Cimetrix CIMControlFramework™ (“Cimetrix CCF”) 
software,  which  includes  components  for  supervisory  control,  material  handling,  operator  interface,  platform 
control,  and  factory  automation  requirements,  to  allow  equipment  manufacturers  to  meet  the  requirements  of 
fabrication facilities. Developers can leverage framework components through configuration and extension or 
customize the framework when unique requirements exist. Cimetrix CCF is designed to allow data generated at 
any point on the equipment to be quickly and easily accessed by other modules or external applications. Cimetrix 
CIMConnect, Cimetrix CIM300, and Cimetrix CIMPortal Plus are integrated with Cimetrix CCF to support the 
SEMI GEM, GEM300, and EDA/Interface A standards. 

Services 

Our services are almost always sold together with, or to support, our products and include the following: 

Software-as-a-Service – We provide services to make our Exensio software available to our customers via the Internet, 
generally hosted by third-party providers. SaaS is considered part of cloud computing since the software is hosted on the 
Internet, or the “cloud.” Since our SaaS applications are accessed from a remote server rather than installed on individual 
machines,  it  is  easier  to maintain.  For example,  when  the  remote  software  is updated,  the  customer’s  interface  is  also 
updated for all users. Cloud computing is designed to eliminate incompatibilities between different software versions and 
allow us to make incremental updates without requiring software downloads. Additionally, our customers can save data to 
a central online location, which is designed to allow increased project collaboration. As part of these services, we also 
typically provide hosted management services for the software and the customer’s data stored in our cloud. These services 
include  environment  set-up  and  configuration,  system  health  monitoring,  data  integration  maintenance,  integration 
monitoring, system updates, security, and data upload/download, and license administration. 

Software  Related  Services –  We  provide  software  maintenance  and  support  (“M&S”),  data  management  services, 
various value-added services (“VAS”) to install, configure, or create analysis templates, and other professional services to 
achieve customers’ specific outcomes using our software. We call this last type of services our solutions offering and, in 
these  cases,  we  tailor  the  use  of  one  or  more  Exensio  products  to  achieve  a  desired  result.  For  example,  our  AIM 
YieldAware™ FDC solution offering is designed to identify the process control variables that have the greatest impact on 
product  yield  through  professional  services  that  analyze  the  data  from  both  Exensio  Process  Control  and  elements  of 
Exensio Manufacturing Analytics and make recommendations for the customer to implement. VAS are provided by our 
professional service personnel with expertise that enhances and complements the engineering teams at our customers. For 
example, VAS includes our data cleaning and monitoring services. One requirement of big data analytics is to have clean, 
harmonized  data  to  analyze.  This  service  offering  outsources  the  data  wrangling  and  management  effort  to  free  the 
customer to focus their efforts on analysis, which has a greater ROI to the company than data management. 

Characterization  Services –  These  services  are  designed  to  characterize  key  product  and/or  process  elements, 
primarily  into  CV  test  structures  or  DFI  on-chip  measurement  instruments,  and  typically  do  not  include  performance 

10 

Table of Contents 

incentives based on the customers’ yield achievement. We provide these services, typically together with all elements of 
our  CV  system,  to  foundry  customers  in  connection  with  new  process  technology  development  and/or  yield  ramp.  In 
Characterization engagements, we generally provide the analysis of our CV test chips and provide summary findings and 
recommendations to the customer. Characterization engagements can include DFI systems. 

Customers 

Our  existing  customers  include  foundries,  IDMs,  fabless  semiconductor  design  companies,  OSATs,  equipment 
manufacturers, EMS, and ODMs, including those that embed and distribute our Assembly Operations modules in their 
equipment.  Our  semiconductor  customers’  targeted  product  segments  vary  significantly,  including  microprocessors, 
memory, graphics, image sensor solutions, and communications. We believe that the adoption of our solutions by such 
companies for usage in a wide range of products validates the application of our solutions to the broader semiconductor 
market. We often have multiple contracts with a single customer or customer group, with no interdependent performance 
obligations. In general, our customer contracts are non-cancellable. 

One customer accounted for 35% of our revenues for 2023, two customers accounted for 41% of our revenues for 
2022 and two customers accounted for 27% of our revenues for 2021. No other customers accounted for 10% or more of 
our  revenues  in  2023,  2022 and 2021.  Also,  two  customers  accounted for  50% of our  gross  accounts  receivable  as  of 
December 31, 2023, and three customers accounted for 53% of our gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2022. 
We generally do not require collateral or other security to support accounts receivable. See the discussion in “Risk Factors” 
under Item 1A for more information about risks associated with customer concentration and contractual provisions. 

International revenues accounted for approximately 44%, 50% and 55% of our total revenues for 2023, 2022 and 
2021, respectively. We base these calculations on the geographic location of where the work is performed or where the 
customer is located. Revenues from customers by geographic area based on the location of the customers’ work sites for 
the last three fiscal years can be found in Note 11, “Customer and Geographic Information” to the consolidated financial 
statements. Additional discussion regarding the risks associated with international operations can be found under Item 1A, 
“Risk Factors”. 

See  our  “Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements”,  included  under  Part II,  Item 8.  “Financial  Statements  and 

Supplementary Data” for additional geographic information. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales strategy is primarily to pursue targeted accounts through a combination of our direct sales force, our service 
teams, and strategic alliances. After we are engaged by a customer and early in the services process, our engineers seek to 
establish relationships in the organization and gain an understanding of our customers’ business issues. Our direct sales 
and  service  teams  combine  their  efforts  to  deepen  our  customer  relationships  by  expanding  our  penetration  across 
customers’  products,  processes,  and  technologies.  This  close  working  relationship  with  each  customer  has  the  added 
benefit  of  helping  us  to  identify  new  product  areas  and  technologies  in  which  we  should  next  focus  our  research  and 
development efforts. From time-to-time, we use sales representatives/agents in various locations to augment direct sales 
in certain territories.  

We  expect  to  continue  to  establish  strategic  alliances  with  process  licensors,  vendors  in  the  electronic  design 
automation software, capital equipment for IC production, and test silicon IP and mask-making software segments to create 
and take advantage of sales channel and co-marketing opportunities. Additionally, we expect to form relationships with 
key  value  chain  participants,  including  foundries  and  OSATs,  to  provide  services  and  value  across  the  manufacturing 
supply chain. 

Research and Development 

Our  research  and  development  focuses  on  developing  and  introducing  new  proprietary  technologies  for  our 
comprehensive platform, including our Exensio software, Cimetrix connectivity and control products, and DFI and CV 
systems, as well as other software products and enhancements to our existing solutions, such as field applications for DFI 

11 

Table of Contents 

and  CV  and  new  applications  targeted  to  inter-operate  with  strategic  partner  products.  We  use  a  rapid-prototyping 
paradigm in the context of the customer engagement to achieve these goals. We have made, and expect to continue to 
make,  substantial  investments  in  research  and  development.  The  complexity  of  our  technologies  requires  expertise  in 
standards, physical IC design and layout, transistor design and semiconductor physics, semiconductor process integration, 
numerical algorithms, e-beam technology, hardware, statistics and software development. We believe that our team of 
engineers  will  continue  to  advance  our  market  and  technological  leadership.  We  conduct  in-house  training  for  our 
engineers in certain technical areas. Our training also extends to focusing on ways to enhance customer service skills. 
Although it fluctuates, we can have up to one quarter of our research and development engineers assigned to one or more 
projects, partnered with solution services engineers, in a deliberate strategy to provide direct feedback between technology 
development and customer needs. We also utilize a variety of skilled independent contractors for specialized development. 

Competition 

The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and driven by rapidly changing design and process technologies, 
evolving standards, short product life cycles, and decreasing prices. We expect market competition to continue to develop 
and increase as the market for data and analytics continues to evolve. We believe IC companies benefit from a combination 
of  big  data  management  infrastructure,  AI/ML-based  analytics  engines,  and  products  that  generate  and  collect 
differentiated data that enrich the analytics process. Currently, we are a leading provider of comprehensive commercial 
hardware, software and IP solutions for optimizing and improving design, manufacturing and test operations processes 
through the application of differentiated data and advanced analytics. As a result, we face competition from three primary 
groups: internal customer development or design programs, equipment solutions providers, and providers of analytical and 
design software. We face indirect competition from internal groups at IC companies that offer tools with varying degrees 
of  optimization  to  accelerate  process-design  integration  or  test  operations.  Some  providers  of  semiconductor 
manufacturing  software,  inspection  equipment,  electronic  design  automation,  or  design  IP  may  seek  to  broaden  their 
product offerings and compete with us. In addition, companies providing general ML and analytics software may focus on 
semiconductor companies and compete with us. In each of the market segments we compete in, we face competition from 
established and potential competitors, some of whom may have greater financial, research, engineering, manufacturing 
and marketing resources than we have. 

We currently face indirect competition from the internal groups at IC companies and direct competition from providers 
of (i) yield management and/or prediction systems, such as KLA Corporation (“KLA”), Siemens AG (“Siemens”), Onto 
Innovation, Inc. (“Onto”), and Synopsys, Inc. (“Synopsys”); (ii) semiconductor manufacturing software, such as Applied 
Materials,  Inc  (“Applied  Materials”),  Synopsys,  Invantest,  Inc.,  Emerson  Electric  Co.,  Onto,  and  Siemens;  (iii)  inline 
inspection, metrology and electrical test equipment providers, such as ASML Holding N.V. (“ASML”), Applied Materials, 
KLA, and Keysight Technologies, Inc.; and, (iv) connectivity software or integration products/services supporting factory 
equipment  connectivity  or  control  needs  of  customers,  such  as  PEER  Group,  Inc.,  Kontron  AIS,  GmbH,  Yokogawa 
Electric  Corp.,  Advantest,  and  Kornic  Automation  Co.  Ltd.  There  may  be  other  providers  of  competitive  commercial 
solutions of which we are not aware, and we may compete with the products or offerings of these named companies or 
additional companies if we expand our offerings through acquisitions or development. For example, since our acquisition 
of  Cimetrix  in  late  2020,  we  now  face  competition  in  the  products/services  supporting  the  connectivity,  control  and 
integration of factory equipment. The demand for solutions that address the need for better integration between the silicon 
design and manufacturing processes may encourage direct competitors to enter our market. For example, in 2020, two of 
our competitors were acquired by larger entities, Synopsys acquired Qualtera and NI, Inc. acquired Optimal+, and each 
has increased marketing or pricing competition with us. For example, in 2023, Emerson Electric Co. acquired NI, Inc. This 
competition in our market may intensify in the future, which could lead to increased pricing pressure, negatively impacting 
our revenues, and slow our ability to grow or execute our strategy. Also, our current and potential customers may choose 
to develop their own solutions internally, particularly if we are slow in deploying our solutions or improving them to meet 
market  needs.  These  and  other  competitors  may  be  able  to  operate  with  a  lower  cost  structure  than  our  engineering 
organization, which would give any such competitor’s products a competitive advantage over our solutions. 

We believe that our solutions compare favorably with respect to competition because we have demonstrated results 
and reputation, strong core technology, ability to create innovative technology, and ability to implement solutions for new 
technology and product generations. See the discussions in “Risk Factors” under Item 1A for more information about risks 
associated with our competition. 

12 

Table of Contents 

Human Capital Management 

We  believe  that  our  future  success  will  depend,  in  part,  on  our  continued  ability  to  hire  and  retain  qualified 
management,  sales,  and  technical  employees.  Consequently,  we  seek  to  engage  in  sound  ethical  and  organizational 
governance,  promote  business  ethics  and  integrity,  and  embrace  equality,  diversity,  and  inclusion  throughout  our 
organization. 

As  of  December 31,  2023,  we  had  493  employees  worldwide,  including  171  field  application  engineers  and 
consultants, 155 in research and development, 106 in sales and marketing, and 61 in general and administrative functions. 
Of these employees, 285 are located in the United States, 172 in Asia, and 36 in Europe. 

None of our employees are represented by a labor union. Our employees in France and Italy are subject to collective 

bargaining agreements in those countries. 

Our commitment to human capital management is embedded in our governance structure 

At the Board level, our Compensation and Human Capital Management Committee is tasked with oversight of the 
development,  implementation  and  effectiveness  of  our  policies  and  strategies  relating  to  human  capital  management, 
including strategies regarding recruiting, selection, career development and progression, and diversity and employment 
practices. Further, our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is tasked with primary oversight for governance 
and ESG issues. 

Talent Development 

We are committed to the development and growth of our employees because we believe this is crucial for our long-
term  success.  This  includes  offering  training,  mentorship,  and  other  development  opportunities  to  further  enhance  the 
talent we have today, but also entails having the right skill sets for our future. 

To this end, we are working to implement a planned set of actions around increasing formal programs to achieve these 
goals. We believe that our team of engineers will continue to advance our market and technological leadership. We conduct 
in-house training for our engineers in certain technical areas. 

We also fund attendance at continuing education courses, symposia, and participation in professional organizations. 

Employee Engagement 

Employee engagement is crucial for the overall health of the organization. In 2023, we conducted a survey of all our 

employees to assess overall employee engagement. 

In  addition  to  our  efforts  to  address  employee  engagement,  we  are  committed  to  supporting  our  employees  and 

creating an engaged workforce by prioritizing the items below: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

personal growth through training and development; 

recognizing and rewarding our people for their commitment to our values and our organization; 

flexible work locations and schedules; and 

providing a sense of organizational community by hosting online as well as in-person events where our people 
can gather and connect. 

13 

Table of Contents 

Health and Safety 

We  are  committed  to  ensuring  that  proper  working  conditions  exist  for  the  safety  of  our  employees,  such  as 
developing,  implementing,  and  improving  health  and  safety  systems  and  conditions,  and  providing  appropriate 
preparation, education, reporting, and controls. 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 

We work to ensure that our business practices support diversity and inclusion to build an innovative workforce and to 
strive  toward  having  our  organization  reflect  the  complexion  of  our  customers  and  suppliers.  In  February 2024,  after 
considering the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Compensation and Human 
Capital Management Committee approved, and then our Board adopted, a Human Rights policy and a Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion (“DEI”) Policy to better implement our core values and relevant standards into our governance structure.  

We  are  strengthening  our  diversity  and  inclusion  programs  with  actions  around  organizational  training,  on-going 

education and focus on our company values, and a revitalized recruitment strategy. 

We value a range of diverse perspectives with reference to our business model and specific needs, including, but not 
limited to, gender, age, race, language, cultural background, educational background, industry experience, professional 
experience, and veteran and active armed service status or other similar characteristics.  

Information about our Executive Officers 

The  following  table  and  notes  set  forth  information  about  our  current  executive  officers  as  of  the  date  of  this 

Form 10 - K. 

Name 
John K. Kibarian, Ph.D. . . . . .   
Adnan Raza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Kimon W. Michaels, Ph.D. . . .   
Andrzej Strojwas, Ph.D. . . . . .   

      Age 
59 
51 
57 
71 

     Position

President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer
Executive Vice President, Products and Solutions and Director
Chief Technology Officer

John K. Kibarian, Ph.D., one of our founders, has served as President since November 1991 and has served as our 
Chief  Executive  Officer  since  July 2000.  Dr. Kibarian  has  served  as  a  director  on  our  Board  of  Directors  since 
December 1992. Dr. Kibarian received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering, an M.S. E.C.E. and a Ph.D. E.C.E. from Carnegie 
Mellon University. 

Adnan Raza, joined in January 2020 as Executive Vice President, Finance, and was appointed Chief Financial Officer 
effective in March 2020. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Raza served as an independent strategy consultant for private 
and public companies from July 2019 to January 2020. Prior to that, Mr. Raza served in various roles at Synaptics Inc., a 
developer  of  human  interface  technologies,  including  as  Senior  Vice  President  of  Corporate  Development  from 
August 2017 to June 2019 and Vice President of Corporate Development from February 2015 to August 2017. Prior roles 
include  technology  investment  banking  at  Goldman,  Sachs &  Co.  and  UBS  Investment  Bank,  strategic  advising  at 
Blackreef  Capital,  engineering  and  marketing  at  Azanda  Network  Devices,  and  engineering  at  Lucent  Technologies. 
Mr. Raza also served as a Board Member at FIDO Alliance, an alliance of leading technology companies to enhance user 
security and authentication. Mr. Raza holds an M.B.A. from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, a 
M. Eng.  in  Electrical  Engineering  from  Cornell  University,  and  a  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering  from  Valparaiso 
University. 

Kimon W. Michaels, Ph.D., one of our founders, has served as Vice President, Products and Solutions since July 2010 
and  was  designated  as  an  Executive  VP  in  February 2019.  Dr. Michaels  served  as  Vice  President,  Design  for 
Manufacturability  from  June 2007  through  June 2010.  Prior  to  that,  Dr. Michaels  served  as  Vice  President,  Field 
Operations for Manufacturing Process Solutions from January 2006 through May 2007, and has served as a director on 
our  Board  of  Directors  since  November 1995.  From  March 1993  through  December 2005,  he  served  in  various  vice 
presidential  capacities.  He  also  served  as  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  the Company  from  November 1995  to  July 1998. 
Dr. Michaels  received  a  B.S.  in  Electrical  Engineering,  and  M.S.  E.C.E.  and  a  Ph.D.  E.C.E.  from  Carnegie  Mellon 
University. 

14 

 
 
 
Table of Contents 

Andrzej Strojwas, Ph.D., served as a technical advisor to the Company from our founding until 2021 and as chief 
technologist from 1997 to 2021. He joined the Company as an employee in July 2021 as Vice President and Technical 
General  Manager,  and  was  appointed  Chief  Technology  Officer  effective  December 2021.  From  October 1982  to 
July 2021,  Dr. Strojwas  was  the  Keithley  Professor  of  Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering  at  Carnegie  Mellon 
University. In addition, Dr. Strojwas has held senior technical positions at Harris Semiconductor Co., AT&T Bell Labs, 
Texas Instruments, NEC, Hitachi, SEMATECH, and KLA. He holds an M.S. in Electronic Engineering from Warsaw 
Technical University and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University. 

Available Information 

We file or furnish various reports, such as registration statements, periodic and current reports, proxy statements and 
other  materials  with  the  SEC.  Our  Internet  website  address  is  www.pdf.com.  You  may  obtain,  free  of  charge  on  our 
website, copies of our annual reports on Form 10 - K, quarterly reports on Form 10 - Q, current reports on Form 8 - K, and 
amendments  to  those  reports  filed  or  furnished  pursuant  to  Section 13(a) or  15(d) of  the  Exchange  Act,  as  soon  as 
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The Company’s website 
address provided is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information on the Company’s website is not, and 
should not be considered, part of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K and is not incorporated by reference herein. 

The SEC maintains a Web site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other 

information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. 

15 

 
 
Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. Some of these risks are highlighted in 
the following discussion, and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, 
Legal Proceedings, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The occurrence of any of these risks 
or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially 
and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and stock price. These risks and uncertainties 
could  cause  our  actual  results  to  differ  materially  from  the  results  contemplated  by  the  forward-looking  statements 
contained in this report. Investors should carefully consider all relevant risks and uncertainties before investing in our 
common stock. 

Risk Factors Summary 

Risks Associated with Our Business 

•  We have invested significant resources into research and development of our DFI system and Exensio software 
and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives on the expected timeline or at all, our business, financial 
condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. 

•  Our sales cycle is lengthy and customers may delay entering into contracts or decide not to adopt our products or 
solutions after we have performed services or supported their evaluation of our technology, which could result in 
delays in recognizing revenue and could negatively impact our results of operations in a quarter or result in lower 
revenue than we expected if a contract is not consummated. 

•  We rely on sole-source providers for certain software as well as for specialized parts for our eProbe hardware and 
supply-chain delays or disruptions could increase our costs or impact our ability to provide complete software 
solutions or to build additional hardware tools or meet customer expectations or deadlines, which could result in 
lost sales and lower earnings. 

•  Our fixed-fee services for product or system installations/configurations may take longer than budgeted, which 
could slow our revenue recognition and may result in a lost contract or a claim of breach by our customers, which 
would negatively affect our financial and operating results. 

•  Our ability to sell our products, systems, and solutions depends in part on the quality of our support and services 
offerings, and the failure to offer high-quality support and services could negatively affect our sales and results 
of operations. 

•  Defects in our proprietary technologies, hardware and software tools, and failure to effectively remedy any such 

defects could decrease our revenue and our competitive market share. 

•  Objectionable disclosure of our customers’ confidential information or our failure to comply with our customers’ 
security rules, including for those related to SaaS access, AI use, or our on-site access, could result in costly 
litigation, cause us to lose existing and potential customers, or negatively impact on-going business with existing 
customers. 

•  We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and a large percentage of 
our revenues from one customer, so defaults or decreased business with, or the loss of, any one of these customers, 
or pricing pressure, or customer consolidation could significantly reduce our revenues or margins and negatively 
impact results of operations. 

• 

If  we  do  not  continuously  meet  our  development  milestones  of  key  research  and  development  projects  or 
successfully commercialize our DFI system, our future market opportunity and revenues will suffer, and our costs 
may not be recouped. 

16 

Table of Contents 

•  We are required to comply with governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability 
and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international 
markets. 

•  Decreases  in  wafer  volumes  at  our  customers’  manufacturing  sites  or  the  volume  of  ICs  that  some  of  our 

customers are able to sell to their customers would cause our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue to suffer. 

•  We acquired an early-stage battery-solutions provider and have been investing in research and development for 
new products and services beyond our traditional semiconductor focus, and it could take a long time to reach 
market acceptance and recoup our costs, if at all. 

•  Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business 
through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, which actions may have an adverse effect on our 
financial and operating results. 

•  Our  business  may  be  negatively  impacted  by  social,  political,  geopolitical,  economic  instability,  unrest,  war, 
terrorism, or other circumstances that could interrupt our business operations, which could cause us to lose sales 
or delay or be unable to fulfill contractual commitments, which may have an adverse effect on our financial and 
operating results. 

•  Global economic conditions or semiconductor market conditions could materially adversely impact demand for 

our products and services, decrease our sales, or delay our sales cycle. 

•  We  face  challenges  in  providing  a  comprehensive  solution  outside  of  the  semiconductor  industry  due  to 
limitations on the business areas in which we can use current third-party licensed technology, which may make 
it prohibitively expensive to sell our solution for applications outside of our traditional industry. 

Risks Related to Our Technology 

• 

If  we  fail  to  protect  our  IP  rights,  customers  or  potential  competitors  may  be  able  to  use  our  technologies  to 
develop their own solutions, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenues, or increase our 
costs. 

•  We are exposed to risks related to information technology infrastructure, information management and protection, 

cybersecurity threats, and cyber incidents. 

•  We  and  our  customers  are  subject  to  laws  and  regulations  concerning  data  privacy,  data  security,  consumer 
protection, and advertising and these laws and regulations are continually evolving, which exposes us to potential 
material risks. 

•  Our technologies could infringe the IP rights of others, causing costly litigation and the loss of significant rights. 

•  Competition in the market for data analytics and related systems and services may intensify in the future, which 

could impede our ability to grow or execute our strategy. 

•  Generative AI and the user other advanced AI technologies for software development may subject us to claims 

of misappropriation of others’ IP, bugs/errors, and ambiguous ownership of created content. 

Risks Related to Our Operations 

•  Measurement of our variable consideration sometimes require data collection and customers’ use of estimates 
and are contingent upon customers’ consent and may be later offset if actual data differ from customers’ estimates, 
which can result in uncertainty and cause quarterly results to fluctuate. 

17 

Table of Contents 

•  We have customers with past due balances and our failure to collect a significant portion of such balances could 
adversely  affect  our  cash,  require  us  to  write-off  receivables,  or  increase  our  expense or  allowance  for  credit 
losses. 

•  We face operational and financial risks associated with international operations that could negatively impact our 

revenues. 

•  Our  business  is  subject  to  evolving  corporate  governance  and  public  disclosure  regulations  and  expectations, 

including with respect to ESG matters that could expose us to numerous risks. 

•  Provision of certain of our data services relies on installing, configuring, and operating proprietary configuration 
of hardware and software systems located in third-party facilities and errors affecting such facilities’ operations 
could lead to liability for us, and any objection from such third-party facility or delay in providing us physical or 
logical access to our systems may adversely impact our ability to timely perform our contract obligations or lead 
to confidentiality, integrity, availability, security, or privacy controls exceptions. 

Tax Risks 

•  U.S. federal tax reform and changes in foreign tax laws could change our tax burden and adversely affect our 

business and financial condition. 

•  Future events may impact our deferred tax asset position, including the utilization of net operating loss and tax 

credit carryforwards. 

Risks Related to Our Strategic Transactions 

•  We may devote significant time and resources to developing strategic relationships but we may not realize the 

benefits of such efforts, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

•  Our acquisitions create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial results. 

General Risk Factors 

• 

If we are not able to retain, attract, motivate, and strategically locate talented employees, including some key 
executives, our business may suffer. 

•  Our earnings per share and other operating results may vary quarter to quarter, which could result in not meeting 

investors’ expectations and stock price volatility. 

•  Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders, and such activism could 

impact the trading value of our securities. 

Risks Associated with Our Business 

We have invested significant resources into research and development of our DFI system and Exensio software and if 
we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives on the expected timeline or at all, our business, financial condition, or 
results of operations could be adversely impacted. 

As part of the evolution of our business, we have made substantial investments in research and development efforts 
to develop our DFI system and Exensio software. New competitors, technological advances in the semiconductor industry 
or other competitive factors may require us to further invest significantly greater resources than we anticipate. If we invest 
significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could 
decline. The technologies and products that we invest in may not result in products that create additional revenue, and we 

18 

 
Table of Contents 

may not recoup our investments, which could cause our results to suffer. If our DFI system and Exensio software do not 
anticipate technological changes in our industry or fail to meet market demand, we may not capture the market share we 
anticipate, we may lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business, financial condition 
or results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may 
be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. 

Our  sales  cycle  is  lengthy  and  customers  may  delay  entering  into  contracts  or  decide  not  to  adopt  our  products  or 
solutions after we have performed services or supported their evaluation of our technology, which could result in delays 
in recognizing revenue and could negatively impact our results of operations in a quarter or result in lower revenue 
than we expected if a contract is not consummated. 

On-going negotiations and evaluation projects for new products, with new customers or in new markets may not result 
in significant revenues for us if we are unable to close new engagements on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner, or 
at all. Unexpected delays in our sales cycle could cause our revenues to fall short of expectations. Further, the timing and 
length of negotiations required to enter into agreements with our customers and the enforcement of our complex contractual 
provisions is difficult to predict. If we do not successfully negotiate certain key complex contractual provisions, if there 
are disputes regarding such provisions, or if they are not enforceable as we intended, our revenues and results of operations 
would suffer. Further, our customers sometimes delay starting negotiations until they begin developing a new process, 
have a need for a new product, or experience specific yield issues. This means that, on occasion we have, and may continue 
to provide technology and services under preliminary documentation before executing the final contract. In these cases, 
we would not recognize revenue and may defer associated costs until execution of a final contract, which, if significant, 
could negatively impact our results of operations in the periods before we execute a final contract. Further, if we were to 
incur significant costs and then fail to enter into a final contract, we would have to write-off such deferred costs in the 
period  in  which  the  negotiations  ended,  which  would  increase  our  costs  and  expenses  and  could  result  in  significant 
operating losses. 

We rely on sole-source providers for certain software as well as for specialized parts for our eProbe hardware and 
supply-chain delays or disruptions could increase our costs or impact our ability to provide complete software solutions 
or to build additional hardware tools or meet customer expectations or deadlines, which could result in lost sales and 
lower earnings. 

We provide some enabling technology under license and support from sole-source providers and some of our vendors 
provide highly specialized, differentiated products and services related to our eProbe system. In the event these licensors 
or vendors delay or discontinue providing such products and services to us, it may be difficult and costly or impossible for 
us to replace such suppliers or parts. In the case of licensed software, this could impact our ability to grow our sales or to 
meet the support expectations of our customers and we may need to resort to legal action, which could limit our future 
sales,  harm  our  reputation,  increase  our  costs,  and  harm  our  earnings.  For  example,  in  November 2023,  a  provider  of 
enabling technology abruptly stopped providing maintenance and support of their software product to us. As a result, we 
resorted to legal action, which caused us to incur increased legal expenses beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023. The 
matter is ongoing, and the long-term impact of this provider’s actions on our business and our customers is unknown at 
this time. In the case of vendors related to our eProbe tool, such disruptions or delays could delay or stop our ability to 
complete and deliver our DFI systems as currently designed to our customers, which would negatively impact our bookings 
and revenue related to such systems. In addition, such delays or disruptions to our supply chain could significantly increase 
our component costs, or personnel-related costs if we need to build a replacement solution in the case of certain software 
elements, and could impact our ability to build future generations or models of our eProbe tools, any of which would 
decrease or delay our sales, earnings, and liquidity and could otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased 
costs. Such a delay or disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to: failure to 
comply with existing contracts, higher priority alternative buyers, inflation and global interest rates increasing component 
costs, a closure or slowdown at our suppliers’ plants or shipping delays including, for example, those made to combat the 
spread of COVID - 19, market shortages for critical components, increases in prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas, 
embargoes or tariffs on components or our products, labor stoppages or shortages, our suppliers’ supply chain disruptions, 
third-party interference, cyberattacks, severe weather conditions including the adverse effects of climate change-related 
events,  geopolitical  developments,  war  or  terrorism,  and  disruptions  in  utilities  and  other  services.  In  addition,  the 

19 

Table of Contents 

development,  licensing,  or  acquisition  of  new  products  in  the  future  may  increase  the  complexity  of  supply  chain 
management. Failure to effectively manage our supply of components and products could adversely affect our business. 

Our fixed-fee services for product or system installations/configurations may take longer than budgeted, which 
could slow our revenue recognition and may result in a lost contract or a claim of breach by our customers, which 
would negatively affect our financial and operating results. 

Our fixed-fee services, including for Characterization, require a team of engineers to collaborate with our customers 
to  address  complex  issues  by  using  our  software  and  other  technologies,  and  the  installation  and  configuration  of  our 
software  into  our  customers’  fabrication  and  test/assembly  facilities  requires  experienced  engineers  working  with  our 
customers on active foundry and test/assembly equipment. We must accurately estimate the amount of time and resources 
needed  to  complete  these  types  of  services  to  determine  when  the  engineers  will  be  able  to  commence  their  next 
engagement. In addition, our accounting for contracts with such services, which generate fixed fees, sometimes requires 
adjustments to profit and loss based on revised estimates during the performance of the contract. These adjustments may 
have a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are made. The estimates giving rise to these 
risks, which are inherent in fixed-price contracts, include the forecasting of costs and schedules, and contract revenues 
related to contract performance. If we fail to meet a customer’s expectations, the customer could terminate their contract 
with us or claim that we breached our obligations, which could negatively affect our financial and operating results. 

Our  ability  to  sell  our  products,  systems,  and  solutions  depends  in  part  on  the  quality  of  our  support  and  services 
offerings, and the failure to offer high-quality support and  services could negatively affect our sales and results of 
operations. 

Once our products are integrated within our customers’ hardware and software systems, our customers may depend 
on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. Further, in connection with delivering our SaaS 
Services,  which  requires  us  to  maintain  adequate  server  hardware  and  internet  infrastructure,  including  system 
redundancies, we are required to meet contractual uptime obligations. A high level of system and support is critical for the 
successful marketing and sale of our products. If we do not effectively provide subscription access to our SaaS customers, 
assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, 
and provide effective on-going support and the privacy and data security capabilities required by our customers, we may 
face contractual penalties or customers may not renew subscriptions or services in the future, which would negatively 
impact our results of operations. In addition, due to our international operations, our system and support organization faces 
challenges associated with delivering support, hours that support is available, training, and documentation where the user’s 
native language may not be English. If we fail to maintain high-quality support and services or fail to adequately address 
our customers’ support needs, our customers may choose our competitors’ products instead of ours in the future, which 
would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. 

Defects in our proprietary technologies, hardware and software tools, and failure to effectively remedy any such defects 
could decrease our revenue and our competitive market share. 

If the software, hardware, or proprietary technologies we provide to customers contain defects that negatively impact 
customers’ ability to use our systems or software, increase our customers’ cost of goods sold or time-to-market, or damage 
our customers’ property, such defects could significantly decrease the market acceptance of our products and services or 
could result in warranty or other claims. We must adequately train our new personnel, especially our customer service and 
technical support personnel, to effectively and accurately, respond to and support our customers. If we fail to do this, it 
could lead to dissatisfaction among our customers, which could slow our growth. Further, the cost of support resources 
required to remedy any defects in our technologies, hardware, or software tools could exceed our expectations. We have 
and may further incorporate AI solutions and related technologies for use in product development, or into our platform, 
offerings, services and features, and these applications may become important in our operations over time. If the content, 
analyses,  recommendations,  or  other  output  that  AI  applications  assist  in  producing  are  or  are  alleged  to  be  deficient, 
inaccurate, or imprecise, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any actual 
or perceived defects with our software, hardware, or proprietary technologies may also hinder our ability to attract or retain 
industry partners or customers, leading to a decrease in our revenue. These defects are frequently found during the period 
following  introduction  of  new  software,  hardware,  or  proprietary  technologies  or  enhancements  to  existing  software, 

20 

Table of Contents 

hardware, or proprietary technologies, which means that we may not discover the errors or defects until after customer 
implementation. If our software, hardware, or proprietary technologies contain errors or defects, it could require us to 
expend significant resources to remedy these problems or defend/indemnify claims, which could reduce margins and result 
in the diversion of technical and other resources from our other customer implementations and development efforts. 

Objectionable  disclosure  of  our  customers’  confidential  information  or  our  failure  to  comply  with  our  customers’ 
security rules, including for those related to SaaS access, AI use, or our on-site access, could result in costly litigation, 
cause us to lose existing and potential customers, or negatively impact on-going business with existing customers. 

In the ordinary course of providing SaaS or other services engagements, we may collect customers’ product, process, 
and  test  information,  personally-identifiable  data  about  their  employees  needed  to  administer  licenses,  and  other 
confidential information. Our customers consider most of this information to be competitively sensitive and, in some cases, 
require us to comply with strict protection frameworks, including security rules for on-site or remote access to, hosting of, 
or transfer of their confidential information. As a result of increased regulatory and customer scrutiny of all data processing 
activities, as well as increasing and evolving regulation of such practices, we have security obligations on how we collect, 
transfer and use data (including personal data), which could require us to expend money and resources to comply with 
those requirements, and if compromised again, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, 
and results of operations, including the potential for regulatory investigations, enforcement actions, lawsuits, and a loss of 
business  and  a  degradation  of  our  reputation.  If  we  fail  to  implement  industry  standard  protections  and  processing 
procedures,  the  growing  awareness  of  our  customers  and  potential  customers  regarding  privacy  and  data  security 
requirements and/or adverse media coverage or regulatory scrutiny could limit the use and adoption of our services. In 
addition, to avoid potential disclosure of confidential information to competitors, some of our customers may, in the future, 
ask us not to work with key products or processes, which could limit our revenue opportunities. We recently started using 
third party AI/ML systems for research and development purposes. If these third-party AI/ML systems misuse or fail to 
properly protect  the data we  input, our  use  of such  AI systems  may  result  in  the  unauthorized  disclosure of  sensitive, 
proprietary, or confidential information belonging to us or our customers. For example, if the information we input into a 
third-party AI/ML system is used to train the underlying AI/ML models, such inputs could be revealed to others. The third-
party AI/ML system may also provide outputs that appear to be correct but are incomplete, inaccurate, or otherwise flawed 
and  may  lead  us  to  make  erroneous  decisions  or  recommendations  to  customers,  which  could  result  in  harm  to  our 
reputation and competitive position, customer loss, and legal liability. 

We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and a large percentage of our 
revenues  from  one  customer,  so  defaults or decreased business  with, or  the  loss  of,  any  one of  these  customers,  or 
pricing pressure, or customer consolidation could significantly reduce our revenues or margins and negatively impact 
results of operations. 

Historically, we have had a small number of large customers that contribute significant revenues. In the year ended 
December 31, 2023, one customer accounted for 35% of our total revenues. We have in the past and could in the future 
lose a customer due to its decision not to develop or produce its own future process node or not to engage us on future 
process  nodes.  We  could  also  lose  customers  as  a  result  of  industry  factors,  including  but  not  limited  to  reduced 
manufacturing  volume  or  consolidation.  Consolidation  among  our  customers  could  also  lead  to  increased  customer 
bargaining  power,  or  reduced  customer  spending  on  software  and  services.  Further,  new  business  may  be  delayed  or 
prevented if a key customer uses its leverage to push for terms that are worse for us and we delay entering into the contract 
to negotiate for better terms or decide not to enter into the contract at all, in which case revenue in any particular quarter 
or year may fail to meet expectations and our reliance on our remaining customers could increase. 

Further, if any of our key customers default, declare bankruptcy or otherwise delay or fail to pay amounts owed, or 
we otherwise have a dispute with any of these customers, our results of operations would be negatively affected in the 
short term and possibly the long term. For example, in 2023, 2022 and 2021, we incurred expenses in the amount of $2.6 
million, $1.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively, related to the arbitration with SMIC New Technology Research & 
Development (Shanghai) Corporation due to SMIC’s failure to pay fees due to us under a series of contracts. In 2024, we 
may continue to incur substantial additional expenses related to an arbitration hearing to resolve this matter. The loss of 
revenue from any of our key customers would cause significant fluctuations in results of operations because our expenses 
are fixed in the short term and it takes us a long time to replace customers or reassign resources. 

21 

Table of Contents 

If we do not continuously meet our development milestones of key research and development projects or successfully 
commercialize  our  DFI  system,  our  future  market  opportunity  and  revenues  will  suffer,  and  our  costs  may  not  be 
recouped. 

We have invested significantly in the design and development of our eProbe tool and related IP. Key customers failing 
to purchase, renew, or expand the number or use of such systems on our expected timeline or at all will cause our results 
to miss expectations. Also, if the results of our DFI system, including new applications, are not as we expect, we may not 
be able to successfully commercialize this system or such applications on schedule, or at all, and we may miss the market 
opportunity and not recoup our investment. Further, our eProbe tool could cause unexpected damage to wafers or delay 
processing wafers, which we could be liable for, or which could make customers unwilling to use the tool. If we are not 
able to create significant interest and show reliable and useful results without significant damage to wafers, our investment 
may not be recouped and our future results may suffer. 

We are required to comply with governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and 
restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets. 

We are required to comply with export controls and economic sanctions laws and regulations that restrict selling, 
shipping,  or  transmitting  our  products  and  services  and  transferring  our  technology  outside  the  United  States.  These 
requirements also restrict domestic release of software and technology to foreign nationals. In addition, we are subject to 
customs and other import requirements that regulate imports that are important for our business. If we fail to comply with 
the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) or other U.S. or non-U.S. export or economic sanctions laws and 
regulations (collectively, “Export Regulations”), we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including 
fines for the Company and the possible loss of the ability to engage in exporting and other international transactions. Due 
to the nature of our business and technology, Export Regulations may also subject us to governmental inquiries regarding 
transactions between us and certain foreign entities. 

Export  Regulations  are  fluid,  complex,  and  uncertain,  and  there  are  ongoing  efforts  throughout  the  industry  in 
coordination with regulators to revise, clarify, and interpret Export Regulations. The U.S. Congress and regulators continue 
to  consider  significant  changes  in  laws  and  regulations.  For  example,  the  U.S.  government  is  reportedly  considering 
whether and/or how to impose restrictions directly on cloud-hosted services and further restrictions directly on U.S. person 
activity. We cannot predict the impact that additional legal changes may have on our business in the future. For example, 
in October 2022 the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) promulgated broad, novel Export Regulations relating 
to China that temporarily caused us to pause some deliveries while we interpreted the application of the new regulations 
on our business, given current and evolving operations. Also, BIS has placed certain entities on its entity list (the “Entity 
List”), which restricts supply of items to or in connection with the named entities. Further, in some circumstances Export 
Regulations require a license to export an item if the recipient will use the item to design or produce an item for a Huawei-
affiliated company or certain other organizations on the Entity List. These regulations can also require licenses for exports 
that involve Chinese military or intelligence-related end users or end uses. 

Future changes in Export Regulations, including changes in the enforcement and scope of such regulations, may create 
delays  in  the  introduction  of  our  products  or  services  in  international  markets  or  could  prevent  our  customers  with 
international operations from deploying our products or services globally. In some cases, such changes could prevent the 
export of our products or services to certain countries, governments, entities or individuals altogether. Any such delays or 
restrictions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion, see 
Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”   

Decreases in wafer volumes at our customers’ manufacturing sites or the volume of ICs that some of our customers 
are able to sell to their customers would cause our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue to suffer. 

Our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue includes amounts largely determined by variable wafer volumes at manufacturing 
sites covered by our contracts and, in some cases, determined by the volume of an IC product that our customer is able to 
sell to its customers. Both of these factors are outside of our control. We have seen a significant reduction in our Integrated 
Yield Ramp revenue in recent years and expect this trend to continue. Further, some of our manufacturing customers’ 
business  is  largely  dependent  on  customers  that  use  our  manufacturing  customer  as  a  second  or  third  source.  If  those 

22 

Table of Contents 

customers  consolidate  and/or  otherwise  move  the  orders  to  manufacturing  facilities  not  covered  by  our  contracts,  or 
suspend  their  manufacturing  at  covered  facilities  for  any  reason,  including  consolidation,  our  Integrated  Yield  Ramp 
revenue  will  continue  to  decrease,  which  could  negatively  affect  our  financial  results.  Further,  reduced  demand  for 
semiconductor products or protectionist policies like those stemming from the complex relationships among China, Hong 
Kong, Taiwan, and the United States has from time to time decreased and may continue to decrease the volume of wafers 
and, in some cases, products our customers are able to make or sell, which would also decrease our Integrated Yield Ramp 
revenue. Also, our customers may unilaterally decide to implement changes to their manufacturing processes during the 
period that volume is covered by royalty contracts, which could negatively affect yield results and, thus, our Integrated 
Yield Ramp revenue. 

Since we currently work on a small number of large projects at specified manufacturing sites and, in some cases, on 
specific IC products, our results of operations have been and may continue to be adversely affected by negative changes 
at  those  sites  or  in  those  products,  including  slowdowns  in  manufacturing  due  to  external  factors,  such  as  U.S.  trade 
restrictions, rising inflation and global interest rates, or continued or worsening supply chain disruptions. Also, if wafer 
orders from sites covered by our contracts are not secured by our customers, if an end product does not achieve commercial 
viability, if a process line or, in some cases, a specific product, does not achieve significant increases in yield or sustain 
significant volume manufacturing during the time we receive royalties, revenues associated with such volumes or products 
would  be  negatively  impacted.  This  could  significantly  reduce  our  Integrated  Yield  Ramp  revenue  and  our  results  of 
operations could fail to meet expectations. In addition, if we work with two directly competitive manufacturing facilities 
or products, volume in one may offset volume, and thus any of our related revenue, in the other facility or product. 

We acquired an early-stage battery-solutions provider and have been investing in research and development for new 
products  and  services  beyond  our  traditional  semiconductor  focus,  and  it  could  take  a  long  time  to  reach  market 
acceptance and recoup our costs, if at all. 

In July 2023, we acquired Lantern Machinery Analytics, Inc., an early-stage company providing products and services 
for battery manufacturers, which is beyond our traditional semiconductor focus. We have also invested in research and 
development to expand the application of our existing products and services to battery manufacturers. If we do not create 
products and services battery manufacturers desire, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our solutions for 
battery manufacturing on schedule, or at all. In this case, we may miss the market opportunity, which would mean lower 
sales than we expect, the loss of our investments in battery manufacturing solutions, which would mean lower earnings. 

Our  success  depends  upon  our  ability  to  effectively  plan  and  manage  our  resources  and  restructure  our  business 
through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, which actions may have an adverse effect on our financial 
and operating results. 

Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, 
forecasting, and management process to enable us to appropriately scale and adjust our business and business models in 
response  to  fluctuating market  opportunities  and  conditions,  which  has  in  the  past  and  could  in  the future  continue  to 
require us to increase headcount, acquire new companies or engage in restructurings from time to time. For example, while 
we  have  increased  investment  in  our  business  by  increasing  headcount,  acquiring  companies,  and  increasing  our 
investment in research and development, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business from time to time, at other 
times we have undertaken restructuring initiatives to reduce expenses and align our operations with our evolving business 
needs. Some of our expenses related to such efforts are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to 
fluctuations in our business or headcount. Rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including 
sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair 
our  ability  to  realize  our  current  or  future  business  and  financial  objectives.  Our  ability  to  capitalize  on  the  market 
opportunity  and  achieve  cost  savings  and  other  benefits  from  restructuring  initiatives  within  the  expected  time  frame 
requires significant management input and leadership and is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject 
to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and 
assumptions  are  incorrect,  and we  are unsuccessful  at  implementing  changes, or  if other  unforeseen  events occur, our 
business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 

23 

Table of Contents 

Our business may be negatively impacted by social, political, geopolitical, economic instability, unrest, war, terrorism, 
or other circumstances that could interrupt our business operations, which could cause us to lose sales or delay or be 
unable to fulfill contractual commitments, which may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results. 

Our business operations may be negatively impacted by social, political, economic instability, unrest, war, terrorism, 
or other circumstances in a region in which we operate. Such events may result in restrictions, curfews, or other actions 
and give rise to significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles, which may adversely affect 
our financial and operating results. Further geopolitical uncertainties, including relations between the United States and 
each of  China and  Russia,  between  Israel  and  Palestine,  social  activism,  economic  instability, war,  terrorism, or other 
circumstances that interrupt our ability to conduct business could cause damage to, disrupt, or cancel sales of our products 
and services on a global or regional basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or vendors with 
which we do business. Due to the significance of our China market for our profit and growth, we are exposed to risks in 
China, including the risks mentioned elsewhere and the following: the effects of current U.S.-China relations, including 
rounds of  tariff  increases  and retaliations  and  increasing restrictive regulations,  potential  boycotts  and  increasing  anti-
Americanism;  escalating  U.S.-China  tension  and  increasing  political  sensitivities  in  China;  the  effects  of  China 
government funding in the development of domestic solutions and customer preference for domestic suppliers creating 
additional competition in China; and unexpected governmental regulations and restrictions in China as a result of renewed 
efforts to contain the COVID - 19 pandemic, which could negatively impact our local operations. Such events could also 
make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. In addition, territorial invasions 
can lead to cybersecurity attacks on technology companies, such as ours, located far outside of the conflict zone. We do 
not have a business continuity plan developed to account for all continuity risks (please see Item 1C. Cybersecurity for 
more information about our cybersecurity risk management program). In the event of prolonged business interruptions or 
negative broad economic and security conditions due to political, geopolitical events, we could incur significant losses, 
require substantial recovery time, and experience significant expenditures in order to resume our business operations. In 
addition, our insurance policies typically contain a war exclusion of some description and we do not know how our insurers 
are likely to respond in the event of a loss alleged to have been caused by geopolitical uncertainties. 

Global economic conditions or semiconductor market conditions could materially adversely impact demand for our 
products and services, decrease our sales, or delay our sales cycle. 

Our  customers  are  global  semiconductor  companies,  which  means  that  our  operations  and  performance  depend 
significantly  on  worldwide  economic  conditions  as  well  as  semiconductor  market  specific  changes.  Uncertainty  about 
global  economic  conditions  including  war,  terrorism,  geopolitical  uncertainties  and  other  business  interruptions  could 
result in damage to, disruption, postponement or cancellation of sales of our products or services on a global or regional 
basis. Furthermore, tighter credit, higher interest rates, inflationary concerns, large-scale unemployment, negative financial 
news and/or declines in income or asset values and other macroeconomic factors could have a material adverse effect on 
demand for our products and services and, accordingly, on our business, results of operations or financial condition and/or 
vendors with which we do business. For example, the timing of the build-out of the semiconductor market in China depends 
significantly on governmental funding on both local and national levels and a delay in this funding could negatively affect 
our revenues. Further, any economic and political uncertainty caused by the United States tariffs imposed on goods from 
China or enhanced U.S. export regulations relating to China, among other potential countries, and any corresponding tariffs 
from China or such other countries in response, may negatively impact demand and/or increase the cost for our products. 
Further, the semiconductor industry historically has been volatile with up cycles and down cycles, due to sudden changes 
in customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand 
for customers’ IC products by consumers, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. As a result 
of the various factors that affect this volatility, the timing and length of any cycles can be difficult to predict and could be 
longer than anticipated. Any of these events could negatively affect our revenues and make it challenging or impossible 
for us to deliver products and services to our customers forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify 
the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customers with liquidity issues may 
also lead to additional credit losses. 

24 

 
 
Table of Contents 

We face challenges in providing a comprehensive solution outside of the semiconductor industry due to limitations on 
the  business  areas  in  which  we  can  use  current  third-party  licensed  technology,  which  may  make  it  prohibitively 
expensive to sell our solution for applications outside of our traditional industry. 

Since our software requires certain third-party programs to run as intended and some of our contracts with licensors 
limit the industry in which we can resell such third-party programs, we face challenges to provide a comprehensive solution 
to battery manufacturers. If we or our customers are unable to procure required third-party programs that can be used in 
connection with our products for battery manufacturing, or the cost to do so is higher than expected, we may miss the 
market opportunity, which would mean lower sales than expected, or our costs may be higher, which would mean lower 
earnings than expected.    

Risks Related to Our Technology 

If we fail to protect our IP rights, customers or potential competitors may be able to use our technologies to develop 
their own solutions, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenues, or increase our costs. 

Our  success  depends  largely  on  the  protection  of  our  proprietary  technology.  Our  contractual,  patent,  copyright, 
trademark, and trade secret protection may not be effective against any particular threat or in any particular location. Our 
pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if issued, they may not be sufficiently broad to 
protect our proprietary technologies. Some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for IP and 
our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. Our trade secrets may 
also be stolen, otherwise become known, or be independently developed by competitors. Litigation may be necessary from 
time to time to enforce our IP rights. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur 
substantial  unexpected  operating  costs.  Litigation  could  also  divert  our  resources,  including  our  managerial  and 
engineering resources. If we are unable to exclude others from using our proprietary technologies and methods without 
compensation to us, through litigation or otherwise, it could impede our ability to grow our business and our revenues may 
suffer. 

We are exposed to risks related to information technology infrastructure, information management and protection, 
cybersecurity threats, and cyber incidents. 

We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure, as well as the public cloud to an increasing degree, to 
provide our products and services to our customers. Additionally, we must frequently expand our internal information 
system to meet increasing demand in storage, computing and communication, which may result in increased costs. Our 
internal information system is expensive to expand and must be highly secure due to the sensitive nature of our customers’ 
information that we transmit. Building and managing the support necessary for our growth places significant demands on 
our management and resources. These demands may divert these resources from the continued growth of our business and 
implementation of our business strategy. Bad actors may make increased use of widely available access to generative AI 
technology, such as ChatGPT, for more sophisticated and frequent cyber-attacks or fraudulent impersonations against us. 
These attacks could come from either Advanced Persistent Threat actors or other individual organized or unorganized 
malicious actors.  The expense to purchase, update, and configure security information systems to detect and/or neutralize 
increasingly complex and sophisticated attacks may increase our costs and, failure to acquire the right expertise or systems 
may  leave  us  vulnerable  to  attacks,  which  could  expose  our  confidential  or  competitive  information  or  that  of  our 
customers, which could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our reputation and business opportunity. 

We  rely  on  third-party  service  providers  to  enable  key  services  to  our  customers,  including  for  cloud  services, 
enterprise software, customer support portal software, and co-location computing facilities. We have experienced in the 
past, and may experience in the future, interruptions in our information systems on which our global operations depend or 
unplanned downtime of the infrastructure that delivers our SaaS. Such an unplanned interruption, even if temporary, could 
stop SaaS customers from accessing their hosted data or on-premise customers from downloading licensed software or 
critical security patches, or from accessing our support portal, which could mean that we may not meet our contractual 
commitments for such services to customers, which could reduce our revenue, incur liability, or result in damage to our 
reputation  and  negatively  impact  future  sales.  Further,  the  information  technology  and  infrastructure  that  stores  and 
processes  our  and  our  customers’  data  is  susceptible  to  continually  evolving  cybersecurity  threats  that  become  more 

25 

Table of Contents 

complex  over  time,  especially  with  the  rapid  evolution  of  AI  technologies,  and  may  not  be  recognized  until  launched 
against a target, all of which could result in unauthorized access to, or acquisition of, our data, and interruption or disruption 
of our business. We and our third-party service providers, with whom we may share data, may be unable to anticipate 
these  techniques  or  may  not  implement  adequate  preventative  measures  to  prevent  either  unauthorized  access  to  our 
systems or services that could compromise customer data or other confidential information or result in a disruption of our 
services. In particular, like our peers, we are often the target of cyber-attacks by third parties seeking unauthorized access 
to confidential or sensitive data, including customer confidential information, or to disrupt our ability to provide services 
from  a  broad  range  of  threat  actors,  including  foreign  governments,  criminals,  competitors,  computer  hackers,  cyber 
terrorists and politically motivated groups or individuals. To date, we have not incurred any material costs from these 
attacks.    The  security  measures  we  have  integrated  into  our  internal  systems,  SaaS,  and  software  products,  which  are 
designed to detect unauthorized intrusions or activity and prevent or minimize security breaches, vary in maturity across 
our business and may not function as expected or may not be sufficient to protect against certain attacks. Additionally, we 
may not have sufficient audit logs to fully understand the nature of a cyber-attack.  In some cases, we do not have contracts 
to  provide  legal  protection  or  recourse  for  breaches  of  our  security  protections,  which  may  increase  our  exposure  to 
expenses related to such attacks and negatively impact our results. 

Ransomware attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent and severe, and can lead to significant interruptions in our 
operations, loss of data and income, reputational loss, diversion of funds, and may result in fines, litigation and unwanted 
media attention. Extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling 
or unable to make such payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting payments. Territorial 
invasions like Russia’s invasion of Ukraine or other geopolitical events can lead to cybersecurity attacks on technology 
companies, such as ours, located far outside of the conflict zone. In the event of prolonged business interruptions due to a 
security breach or disruption, we could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant 
expenditures in order to resume our business operations. 

Our information systems are susceptible to computer viruses, cyber-related security breaches, and similar disruptions 
from unauthorized intrusions, tampering, misuse, criminal acts including phishing, or other events or developments that 
we may be unable to anticipate or fail to mitigate. Our security measures may also be circumvented or bypassed due to 
employee errors or malfeasance. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers to disclose 
information in order to gain access to our data or our customers’ data, including account credentials, customer personnel 
information, or other information. If we fail to have adequate controls or safeguards, the security of our internal networks, 
electronic  systems,  or  physical  facilities  could  be  compromised,  which  could  result  in  significant  legal  and  financial 
exposure, a loss of confidence in the security of our SaaS and other software products, interruptions, or malfunctions in 
our operations, account lock outs, and, ultimately, harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We face information technology security and fraud risks due to continued support of our employee’s remote or hybrid 
work  environment,  which may  create  additional  information security vulnerabilities  and/or  magnify  the  impact of  any 
disruption in our information technology systems. Our increased reliance on work-from-anywhere technologies and even 
our  employees’  expanded  reliance  on  company-approved  bring-your-own-mobile-devices  may  increase  the  risk  of 
cybersecurity or data breaches from possible circumvention of security and monitoring systems, denial-of-service attacks 
or other cyber-attacks, hacking, “phishing” attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, malware, employee or insider error, 
malfeasance, social engineering, deep-fake impersonations, physical breaches, or other actions. 

Our insurance policies may not cover losses incurred in the event our systems or data are comprised, and they are 
subject to retention amounts that could be substantial. Moreover, we cannot be certain that such insurance policies will 
continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to 
any future claim. 

Many of our customers and our technical partners require us to complete annual vendor security assessments which 
may  include  a  requirement  to  complete  information  security  self-assessments,  third-party  assessments,  or  obtain 
independent  certifications  from  standards  organizations.  Any  exception  of  controls  found  during  such  assessments  or 
certification, especially if published in a report such as for SOC 2 Type 2, may need to be disclosed to a large number of 
customers and potential customers. Such publication of controls weaknesses could cause customers to re-evaluate their 
purchasing or renewal decisions, which could cause us to lose sales and, as a result, have lower earnings than expected. 

26 

Table of Contents 

Part of our business includes the acquisition of other companies which involves the integration of various business 
processes,  technologies,  and  data  systems.  While  such  acquisitions  offer  strategic  opportunities  for  growth  and 
diversification,  they  also  expose us  to  cybersecurity risks that  may  arise  during  the  integration process  and  thereafter. 
Challenges  in  integrating  information  technology  systems  and  networks  may  create  vulnerabilities  and  expose  the 
organization  to  unauthorized  access  and  data  breaches.  The  transfer  and  consolidation  of  sensitive  information  during 
acquisitions  heighten  data  security  and  privacy  concerns,  potentially  leading  to  regulatory  compliance  issues  and 
reputational damage. Third-party relationships established by the acquired company introduce additional cybersecurity 
risks  if  not  properly  assessed  and  mitigated.  Moreover,  cultural  differences,  compliance  obligations,  and  resource 
constraints further complicate the effective management of cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions, potentially 
impacting the organization's financial performance and reputation. 

If we experience a security event, we may have to conduct an investigation and notify individuals, customers, partners, 
service providers and state, federal and local governmental authorities and regulators in the U.S. and elsewhere around the 
globe.    Accordingly,  security  events  could  lead  to  significant  costs  and  fees  for  legal  advice,  investigation  support, 
remediation, and result in legal risk exposure, damage and harm to our reputation, and impact on our ability to keep and 
attract customers. 

We and our customers are subject to laws and regulations concerning data privacy, data security, consumer protection, 
and advertising and these laws and regulations are continually evolving, which exposes us to potential material risks. 

We  collect,  use,  store  or  disclose  (collectively,  “process”)  personal  information,  including  from  employees  and 
customers,  in  connection  with  the  operation  of  our  business.  The  personal  information  we  process  is  subject  to  an 
increasing  number  of  federal,  state,  local  and  foreign  laws  regarding  privacy  and  data  security,  as  well  as  contractual 
commitments.  Any  failure  or  perceived  failure  by  us  to  comply  with  such  obligations  may  result  in  governmental 
enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could 
cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. 

In the United States, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local data privacy and security laws and regulations 
governing the processing of information about individuals, including federal laws (e.g., FTC Act) and state privacy laws 
(e.g., the California Privacy rights Act and the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act), marketing and communications 
laws, laws regarding credit reports, data breach notification laws, and consumer protection laws, many of which carry 
significant potential for active enforcement and penalties. 

Abroad, our customers may be subject to the EU GDPR and UK GDPR or similar local or regional frameworks that 
impose a strict data protection compliance regime. Our customers may impose these obligations on us by contract, which 
could require us to expend resources to comply with those requirements. 

More  generally,  given  the  rapidly  changing  data  privacy  and  data  security  laws,  regulations,  policies  and  legal 
obligations  discussed  above,  and  because  any  current  compliance  is  subject  to  change  based  on  this  shifting  and 
inconsistent landscape, we could incur costs of complying with these laws and regulations, which in some cases can be 
enforced by our customers, other private parties in addition to government entities, are high and likely to increase in the 
future, particularly as the degree of regulation increases, our business grows and our geographic scope and member base 
expands. The impact of these laws and regulations may disproportionately affect our business in comparison to our peers 
in the technology sector that have greater resources. 

Our technologies could infringe the IP rights of others, causing costly litigation and the loss of significant rights. 

Significant litigation regarding IP rights exists in the semiconductor industry. It is possible that a third party may claim 
that our technologies infringe their IP rights or misappropriate their trade secrets, which has happened in the past. Any 
claim, even if without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, require us to enter into royalty 
or  licensing  agreements,  which  may  not  be  available  to  us  on  acceptable  terms,  or  at  all,  subject  us  to  damages  or 
injunctions restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our 
customers or to forgo future payments or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could adversely 
affect our sales opportunities, expenses, and revenues. 

27 

Table of Contents 

Competition in the market for data analytics and related systems and services may intensify in the future, which could 
impede our ability to grow or execute our strategy. 

Our industry is marked by rapid technological developments and innovations (such as the use of AI and ML) and 
evolving  industry  standards.  If  we  are  unable  to  innovate  quickly  enough  to  keep  pace  with  our  competitors  in 
incorporating such technological developments in our product offerings, our business could be harmed. See the discussion 
in “Competition” in Part 1, Item 1. “Business” section for more information about our current competitors. There may be 
other competitors of which we are not aware, and we may compete with the products or offerings of our existing competitor 
companies  or  additional  companies  if  we  expand  our  offerings  through  acquisitions  or  development.  The  demand  for 
solutions  that  address  the  need  for  better  integration  between  the  silicon  design  and  manufacturing  processes  may 
encourage new direct competitors to enter our market. Increased competition could lead to increased pricing pressure, 
negatively impacting our revenues, or a decreased ability to grow or execute our strategy. Also, our current and potential 
customers may choose to develop their own solutions internally, particularly if we are slow in deploying our solutions or 
improving them to meet market needs. These and other competitors may be able to operate with a lower cost structure than 
our  engineering  organization,  which  would  give  any  such  competitor’s  products  a  competitive  advantage  over  our 
solutions. 

Generative  AI  and  the  user  other  advanced  AI  technologies  for  software  development  may  subject  us  to  claims  of 
misappropriation of others’ IP, bugs/errors, and ambiguous ownership of created content. 

Uncertainty around new and emerging AI applications such as generative AI content creation may require additional 
investment to protect our proprietary datasets, ML models, and systems to test for accuracy, bias and other variables, which 
may  be  costly  and  could  impact  our  profit  margin  if  we  decide  to  expand  generative  AI  into  our  product  offerings. 
Developing, testing, and deploying secure and reliable AI systems and tested software made using such AI systems may 
also increase the cost profile of our offerings. We would be liable for any inaccuracies or errors in software that we release 
that causes downtime or other damage to our customers’ facilities or production lines, which could greatly increase our 
expenses and decrease our earnings. 

Risks Related to Our Operations 

Measurement of our variable consideration sometimes require data collection and customers’ use of estimates and are 
contingent upon customers’ consent and may be later offset if actual data differ from customers’ estimates, which can 
result in uncertainty and cause quarterly results to fluctuate. 

We can only recognize volume- or average selling price- (“ASP”) based royalties once we have reached agreement 
with our customers on their level of yield performance improvements or ASP and quarterly agreements are sometimes 
based on estimates of volume results or ASP for each quarter. Measuring the amount of yield improvement is inherently 
complicated and dependent on our customers’ internal processes and on certain non-public information that may not be 
directly available to us. Thus, there may be uncertainty as to some components of measurement or calculation. Also, some 
variable consideration can be highly susceptible to delays in our customers’ measurement of key factors such as reporting 
volumes results and level of yield or ASP. Therefore, we may have to estimate revenue related to contingent variable fees 
or usage- or sales-based royalties prior to the receipt of performance reports, such as royalty acknowledgements, or other 
related  information  from  customers.  These  estimates  are  subject  to  judgment  to  evaluate  whether  it  is  probable  that  a 
significant revenue reversal will not occur in future periods, which could result in our recognition of less Integrated Yield 
Ramp  revenue  than  expected  that  may  later  be  offset when  actual  results  become  available  if  such  results  differ from 
estimates. 

We  have  customers  with  past  due  balances  and  our  failure  to  collect  a  significant  portion  of  such  balances  could 
adversely affect our cash, require us to write-off receivables, or increase our expense or allowance for credit losses. 

If our customers fail to pay receivable balances when due, our cash will decrease and we may have to incur additional 
expenses  in  an  attempt  to  collect  such  receivables,  to write-off a  portion  or  all  of  such  receivables, or  to  increase  our 
expense or allowance for credit losses. Our accounts receivable balance, net of allowance for credit losses, was $44.9 
million  and  $42.2  million  as  of  December 31,  2023  and  2022,  respectively.  Unbilled  accounts  receivable,  included  in 

28 

Table of Contents 

accounts receivable, totaled $16.4 million and $13.5 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Unbilled 
accounts receivable that are not expected to be billed and collected during the succeeding twelve-month period are recorded 
in other non-current assets and totaled $1.1 million and $0.8 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Two 
customers accounted for 50% of our gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2023, and three customers accounted 
for 53% of our gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2022. The total allowance for credit losses was $0.9 million 
as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. We generally do not require collateral or other security to support accounts receivable. 
Despite the financial ability of these customers to pay for on-going services by PDF under valid contracts, customers may 
delay payments. Our allowances for potential credit losses, if any, could be insufficient, and we may need to adjust our 
allowance for credit losses from current estimates or write-off receivables depending on such claims in the future. If we 
are  forced  to  pursue  legal  remedies  to  collect  receivables,  our  expenses  could  rise  significantly  and  our  business 
relationship and future business with these customers could suffer. 

We  face  operational  and  financial  risks  associated  with  international  operations  that  could  negatively  impact  our 
revenues. 

In recent years, we have derived nearly half of our revenues from sales outside of the United States, and we expect 
our  international  business  to  continue  to  grow.  We  have  in  the past  expanded  and  reorganized,  at  different  times,  our 
operations,  including  international  operations,  and  may  in  the  future  continue  such  expansions  or  reorganizations  by 
establishing  or  restructuring  international  subsidiaries,  offices,  or  contractor  relationships  in  locations,  if  and  when, 
deemed appropriate by our management. Thus, the success of our business is subject to risks inherent in doing business 
internationally, including in particular: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

our potential growth in China is dependent upon continued investments in the semiconductor industry by 
both private and public entities within China. Should circumstances change such that the level of investments 
is substantially reduced, our future growth potential may be limited; 

some of our key engineers and other personnel are foreign nationals and they may not be permitted access to 
certain technical information under U.S. export laws or by certain of our customers and may have difficulty 
gaining access to the United States and other countries in which our customers or our offices may be located, 
and it may be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees in foreign 
offices; 

ineffective or inadequate protection or enforcement of our IP in foreign jurisdictions; 

greater difficulty in collecting account receivables resulting in longer collection periods, credit losses, and 
increased costs to collect; 

language  and  other  cultural  differences  may  inhibit  our  sales  and  marketing  efforts  and  create  internal 
communication  problems  between  our  U.S.  and  foreign  teams,  increasing  the  difficulty  of  managing 
multiple, remote locations and negatively impacting sales and revenue; 

compliance  with,  inconsistencies  among,  and  unexpected  changes  in,  a  wide  variety  of  foreign  laws  and 
regulatory environments with which we are not familiar including, among others, issues related to human 
resources, personal data, tax, protection of our IP, and a wide variety of operational regulations and trade and 
export controls under domestic, foreign, and international law; 

currency risk due to certain of our payables and our international offices’ payables are denominated in foreign 
currencies, including the Euro, Yen, and RMB, while predominantly all of our revenues is denominated in 
U.S. dollars, or in the event a larger portion of our revenues becomes denominated in foreign currencies, we 
would be subject to a potentially significant exchange rate risk; 

inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; 

29 

Table of Contents 

• 

• 

• 

• 

additional  taxes,  interest,  and  potential  penalties,  and  uncertainty  around  changes  in  tax  laws  of  various 
countries; 

geopolitical instability or changes in government, including in the United States of America, could disrupt 
our operations or our customers’ purchases or operations or those of related supply chain participants; 

quarantine, travel restrictions, or business disruptions in regions affecting our operations, stemming from 
actual, imminent or perceived outbreaks of contagious diseases, including COVID - 19; or 

economic  or  political  instability,  including  but  not  limited  to  armed  conflict,  terrorism,  interference  with 
information or communication of networks or systems, including strained or worsening relations between 
the United States and China, occupation or war involving Russia and Ukraine and most recently between 
Israel and Hamas, and the resulting disruption to economic activity and business operations. 

Further,  our  employees  and  contractors  include  professionals  located  in  various  international  locations,  including 
Shanghai,  China  and  Ramallah,  Palestine,  and  Israel,  and  Taiwan  who  provide  software-related  development,  quality 
assurance, maintenance, and other technical support services for certain of our software products. Conflicts in these regions 
or  impacting  these  regions,  or  policy  changes,  including  policies  covering  export  controls,  that  affect  these  or  other 
international operations could disrupt or limit the work our employees and contractors perform and may negatively affect 
the range of services we are able to provide or our cost for such services. 

In  addition, our global  operations  are subject  to numerous  U.S.  and foreign  laws  and regulations,  including  those 
related to anti-corruption, tax, corporate governance, imports and exports, financial and other disclosures, privacy, and 
labor relations. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making 
compliance difficult and costly. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated, or future changes 
to these complex laws and regulations could affect our business. We may incur substantial expense in complying with new 
obligations  to  be  imposed  by  these  laws  and  regulations,  and  we  may  be  required  to  make  significant  changes  in  our 
business  operations,  all  of which  may  adversely  affect  our  revenues  and  our  business overall. Given  the high  level  of 
complexity of these laws, there is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently or intentionally breached, for example 
through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation 
requirements or otherwise. If we violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, or criminal 
sanctions, and may be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. Additionally, we may be held liable 
for actions taken by our local dealers and partners. A significant violation could significantly negatively impact our sales 
opportunities, operations, and financial results. Some companies in China have indicated to us that they have decided to 
use only local vendors as a precaution. If more companies respond to changing regulations by using local vendors, then 
our operations and ability to deliver products and services to customers in China and elsewhere could be significantly 
negatively impacted. In such case, our expected international business may be slower than expected or not materialize at 
all, in which case, our sales opportunities, operations, and financial results would suffer. 

Further, the U.S. government has imposed broad sanctions on Russia, Belarus and certain companies and high-wealth 
individuals relating to the invasion of Ukraine, and has additionally maintained a bipartisan consensus favoring increased 
confrontation of China on trade practices and economic matters, national security, and human rights. The current U.S. 
Administration views technology as a domain of strategic competition in which the U.S. and its allies must stay ahead of 
China and has identified semiconductor, AI, 5G technologies, and the protection of U.S. supply chains as priority efforts. 
As a result of these government actions and policies, unless and until related restrictions are lifted, we are generally not 
able to supply many products, services and technologies to affected entities and countries. Our standard operations include 
development, distribution processes, software download sites, and professional service centers and processes located in 
various  geographies  around  the  world.  Some  customers  have  expressed  concerns  that  continued  action  by  the  U.S. 
government  could  potentially  interrupt  their  ability  to  make  use  of  our  products  or  services.  The  continuing  tension 
between  the  U.S.  government  and  each  of  the  Chinese  and  Russian  governments  in  trade  and  security  matters  or  the 
perception of that tension could lead to further disruptions or reductions in international trade, deter or prevent customer 
purchasing activity, and may negatively impact our financial results. 

30 

Table of Contents 

Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations, including 
with respect to ESG matters that could expose us to numerous risks. 

We  are  subject  to  changing  rules  and  regulations  promulgated  by  a  number  of  governmental  and  self-regulatory 
organizations, including the SEC, the Nasdaq Stock Market, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”). 
These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in 
response to laws enacted by U.S. Congress, making compliance difficult and uncertain, including a new rule effective in 
late 2023 that requires us to report to the SEC all material cyber security incidents through the filing of a Form 8 - K. In 
addition, increasingly regulators, customers, investors, employees, and other stakeholders are focusing on ESG matters 
and related disclosures. These changing rules, regulations and stakeholder expectations have resulted in, and are likely to 
continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and increased management time and attention spent 
complying with or meeting such regulations and expectations. For example, developing and acting on ESG initiatives, and 
collecting,  measuring,  and  reporting  ESG  information  and  metrics  can  be  costly,  difficult  and  time  consuming  and  is 
subject to evolving reporting standards, including the SEC’s proposed climate-related reporting requirements. We may 
also communicate certain initiatives and goals regarding environmental matters, diversity, responsible sourcing, social 
investments, and other ESG matters in our SEC filings or in other public disclosures. These initiatives and goals could be 
difficult and expensive to implement, the technologies needed to implement them may not be cost effective and may not 
advance at a sufficient pace, and we could be criticized for the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of the disclosure of 
our ESG initiatives. Further, statements about our ESG initiatives and goals, and progress against those goals, may be 
based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, 
and assumptions that are subject to change. In addition, we could be criticized for the scope or nature of such initiatives or 
goals, or for any revisions to these goals. If our ESG-related data, processes and reporting are incomplete or inaccurate, or 
if we fail to achieve progress with respect to our ESG goals on a timely basis, or at all, our reputation, business, financial 
performance and growth could be adversely affected. 

Provision of certain of our data services relies on installing, configuring, and operating proprietary configuration of 
hardware and software systems located in third-party facilities and errors affecting such facilities’ operations could 
lead to liability for us, and any objection from such third-party facility or delay in providing us physical or logical 
access  to  our  systems  may  adversely  impact  our  ability  to  timely  perform  our  contract  obligations  or  lead  to 
confidentiality, integrity, availability, security, or privacy controls exceptions. 

In  connection  with  our  data  services  offerings,  we  rely  on  installing,  configuring,  and  operating  proprietary 
configurations of hardware and software systems in facilities owned and operated by third parties around the world. If the 
third-party facility owner/operator does not allow us to install, access and maintain, or otherwise operate as intended these 
systems, we may not timely fulfill our contractual obligations to, or expectations of, our customers. Also, any intentional 
or unintentional disruption of the operation of these proprietary systems may lead to customer dissatisfaction, which could 
cause us to lose future bookings and reduce revenue and negatively impact our earnings. Additionally, any potential or 
actual malicious cybersecurity incident or accidental misconfiguration resulting in a data security incident involving these 
proprietary systems may require complex diagnosis and mitigation because they are located at third-party facilities and 
this may lead to delays, errors, lack of system availability, loss or our customers’ data integrity, or further unauthorized 
disclosure of customer confidential or privacy data. Further, if our system causes downtime or other disruption or loss to 
such third-party facility, we could be liable for damages associated with such event, which could increase our expenses 
and distract management, and cause other third-party facilities to not want to work with us. 

Installing  and  maintaining  such  proprietary  systems  around  the  world  requires  that  we  manage  the  complexity  of 
global operations of individual installations at a large number of different third parties in various countries. The cost and 
complexity of obtaining support, installing updated security patches, and addressing any other critical vulnerabilities in 
each individual physical system may lead to exceptions in controls of confidentiality, availability, integrity, security, and 
privacy, which could negatively impact the availability of our data services to customers, damage our reputation, or lead 
to lower bookings or sales. 

31 

Table of Contents 

Tax Risks 

U.S. federal tax reform and changes in foreign tax laws could change our tax burden and adversely affect our business 
and financial condition. 

We conduct our business globally and, as a result, are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign countries. 
Our future tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax 
laws, insufficient taxable income to realize deferred tax assets, and changes in accounting policies. Our filings are subject 
to reviews or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We cannot be sure that 
any final determination in an audit would not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income 
tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit, there could be a significant negative 
effect on our income tax provision and our operating results in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 
Any changes in our geographical earnings mix in various tax jurisdictions, including those resulting from transfer pricing 
adjustments, could materially increase our effective tax rate. 

On August 9, 2022, the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (the “CHIPS Act”) was enacted in the United States to provide 
certain financial incentives to the semiconductor industry, primarily for manufacturing activities within the United States. 
On January 19, 2024 the House Ways and Means Committee passed with bipartisan support a proposed “tax bill” which 
would retroactively restore the three expired business tax provisions from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act through the end of 
2025,  including  the  requirement  to  capitalize  and  amortize  Section  174  research  and  experimentation  (“R&E”) 
expenditures. The provision would delay the date when taxpayers must begin capitalizing and amortizing their “domestic” 
R&E  expenditures  until  taxable  years  beginning  after  December 31,  2025,  while  leaving  the  requirement  to  capitalize 
foreign research unchanged. This change would be retroactive for taxpayers who have already filed tax returns for taxable 
year 2022. The tax bill is pending vote in the House and Senate. We are continuing to monitor the CHIPS Act and the 
proposed tax bill and related regulatory developments to evaluate their potential impact on our business and operating 
results.  For  further  discussion  of  the  CHIPS  Act,  see  Item  7.  “Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations”. 

Future events may impact our deferred tax asset position, including the utilization of net operating loss and tax credit 
carryforwards. 

Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent primarily upon future taxable income in the applicable jurisdiction. 
We previously recorded a full valuation allowance against all of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets due to the 
uncertainty surrounding the future realization of these deferred tax assets. Therefore, no benefit has been recognized for 
the net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards, and other deferred tax assets. The net operating loss and tax 
credits could expire unused and be unavailable to reduce future income tax liabilities. We intend to continue maintaining 
a full valuation allowance on these deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or 
some portion of these allowances. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for realizability each reporting period. The impact 
of releasing some or all of such valuation allowance in a future period could be a material benefit in the period in which 
such release occurs. 

Risks Related to Our Strategic Transactions 

We may devote significant time and resources to developing strategic relationships but we may not realize the benefits 
of such efforts, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

We  have  in  the past devoted,  and plan  in  the  future  to  devote, time  and  resources  to  identifying, developing,  and 
promoting strategic relationships with other suppliers to provide combined, integrated, or interoperable solutions to the 
semiconductor, electronics, and automotive industries. For example, from July 2020 through August 2023, we announced 
strategic relationships or collaborations with Advantest Corporation, Siemens, Kulicke & Soffa Industries, Inc., SAP SE, 
proteanTecs Ltd, and Voltaiq, Inc. The full extent of the future impact of these strategic relationships on our financial 
condition and results of operations is currently unknown and the failure to reap the anticipated benefits of these companies’ 
financial  resources,  technology,  customer  relationships,  and  global  footprint  and/or  to  successfully  develop  combined, 

32 

Table of Contents 

integrated, or interoperable solutions with such companies could have an adverse effect on our business and results of 
operations. 

Our acquisitions create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial results. 

Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing 
technologies,  customer  demands,  and  competitive  pressures.  To  this  end,  we  have,  from  time  to  time,  engaged  in  the 
process of identifying, analyzing, and negotiating possible acquisition transactions, and, from time to time, acquiring one 
or more businesses, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. We may choose to acquire new and complementary 
businesses,  products,  technologies  and/or  services  instead  of  developing  them  ourselves.  For  example,  we  acquired 
Cimetrix in December 2020 for a gross purchase price of approximately $37.5 million ($31.6 million net of cash acquired) 
for  all  of  its  outstanding  equity.  We  may,  however,  face  competition  for  acquisition  targets  from  larger  and  more 
established companies with greater financial resources, making it more difficult for us to complete acquisitions. We may 
not be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms and we may not realize the benefits that we 
anticipate from one or more acquisitions that we consummate. Integrating any business, product, technology, or service 
into our current operations could be expensive and time-consuming and/or disrupt our ongoing business. Further, there are 
numerous risks associated with acquisitions and potential acquisitions, including, but not limited to, problems combining 
the  purchased  operations,  technologies  or  products,  unanticipated  costs,  liabilities,  litigation,  and  diversion  of 
management’s attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and 
customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and where competitors 
in such markets have stronger market positions, initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply 
partners, failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired 
company  or  technology,  and  the  potential  loss  of  key  employees,  customers,  distributors,  vendors,  and  other  business 
partners of the companies we acquire. 

We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire 
and the transaction may not advance our business strategy. The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to 
be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits 
associated with our acquisitions. If we fail to successfully manage, operate, or integrate any acquired business or if we are 
unable  to  efficiently  operate  as  a  combined  organization,  including  through  the  use  of  common  information  and 
communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, we could be required to 
write-down investments and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We 
may also be unable to protect or enforce the IP rights of any target business that we acquire, or such target businesses may 
become subject to claims of IP infringement. Further, if we become subject to liabilities as a result of an acquisition, the 
liabilities we incur may be substantial and the amounts of such liabilities may not be covered by and/or may exceed any 
liability protections. 

In connection with certain acquisitions, we have in the past and may in the future issue common stock, or assume 
equity awards, that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume 
liabilities (both known and unknown), record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment 
testing  on  a  regular  basis  and  potential  periodic  impairment  charges,  incur  amortization  expenses  related  to  certain 
intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could 
harm our financial condition and results of operations. 

General Risk Factors 

If we are not able to retain, attract, motivate, and strategically locate talented employees, including some key executives, 
our business may suffer. 

Our  success  and  competitiveness  depend  on  our  ability  to  retain,  attract,  motivate,  and  strategically  locate  in  our 
offices  around  the  globe,  talented  employees,  including  some  of  our  key  executives.  Achieving  this  objective  may  be 
difficult  due  to  many  factors,  including  fluctuations  in  global  economic  and  industry  conditions,  changes  in  our 
management  or  leadership,  the  hiring  practices  at  our  competitors  or  customers,  cost  reduction  activities,  and  the 
effectiveness of our recruiting and compensation programs, including equity-based programs. Further, we have had, and 

33 

Table of Contents 

expect  to  continue  to  have,  difficulty  in  obtaining  visas  permitting  entry  for  some  of  our  employees  that  are  foreign 
nationals into the United States, and delays in obtaining visas permitting entry into other key countries, for several of our 
key personnel, which disrupts our ability to strategically locate our personnel. In the past the United States has and, in the 
future,  the  United  States  may  again  increase  the  level  of  scrutiny  in  granting  H - 1(b),  L - 1,  and  other  business  visas. 
Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and 
expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals. If we lose the services of certain of our key executives 
or  a  significant  number of our  engineers,  it  could disrupt  our ability  to implement our  business  strategy.  If we  do not 
successfully  attract,  retain,  and  motivate  key  employees,  including  key  executives,  we  may  be  unable  to  realize  our 
business objectives and our operating results may suffer. 

Our earnings per share and other operating results may vary quarter to quarter, which could result in not meeting 
investors’ expectations and stock price volatility. 

Our stock price has fluctuated widely during the last few years. A factor in the volatility may be that our historical 
quarterly operating results have fluctuated. Our future quarterly operating results will likely fluctuate from time to time 
and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some future period, which could cause our stock 
price to decrease. A significant reduction in our stock price negatively impacts our ability to raise equity capital in the 
public markets and increases the cost to us, as measured by dilution to our existing shareholders, of equity financing. In 
addition,  the  reduced  stock  price  also  increases  the  cost  to  us,  in  terms  of  dilution,  of  using  our  equity  for  employee 
compensation or for acquisitions of other businesses. A greatly reduced stock price could also have other negative results, 
including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, a hostile take-over bid, 
and  fewer  business  development  opportunities.  Also,  significant  volatility  in  our  stock  price  could  be  followed  by  a 
securities class action lawsuit, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and 
resources. 

Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders, and such activism could impact 
the trading value of our securities. 

In recent years, shareholder activists have become involved in numerous public companies, including our company. 
Shareholder activists frequently propose to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction, and operations of a 
company.  Such  proposals  may  disrupt  our  business,  increase  our  expenses,  and  divert  the  attention  of  our  Board  of 
Directors and our management and employees, and any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction resulting from 
such a situation could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, interfere with our ability to execute our strategic 
plan be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to 
attract  and  retain qualified  personnel  and business  partners,  all of which could  adversely affect our  business.  A proxy 
contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting could also require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy 
solicitation expenses. In addition, actions of activist shareholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price 
based  on  temporary  or  speculative  market  perceptions  or  other  factors  that  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  underlying 
fundamentals and prospects of our business. 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 

Item 1C. Cybersecurity 

Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy 

We recognize the importance of assessing, identifying, and managing material risks associated with cybersecurity 
threats, as such term is defined in Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K. These risks include, among other things, operational 
risks, intellectual property theft, fraud, extortion, harm to employees or customers, violation of privacy or security laws 
and  other  litigation  and  legal  risk,  and  reputational  risks.  We  have  implemented  several  cybersecurity  processes, 
technologies, and controls to aid in our efforts to assess, identify, and manage such material risks. 

34 

Table of Contents 

Our process for identifying and assessing material risks from cybersecurity threats operates alongside our broader 
overall risk assessment process, covering all company risks. As part of this process appropriate disclosure personnel will 
collaborate with subject matter specialists, at least annually and more frequently as necessary due to business changes or 
external changes, to gather insights for identifying and assessing material cybersecurity threat risks, their severity, and 
potential mitigations. 

We also have a cybersecurity specific risk assessment process, which helps identify our cybersecurity threat risks. As 
part of  this process,  and  our  processes  to provide  for  the  availability  of  critical  data  and  systems, maintain  regulatory 
compliance,  identify  and  manage  our  risks  from  cybersecurity  threats,  and  to  protect  against,  detect,  and  respond  to 
cybersecurity incidents, as such term is defined in Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K, we undertake the below listed activities, 
among others: 

•  maintain  a  risk  register  and  risk  assessment  process  based  on  The  National  Institute  of  Standards  and 

Technology (“NIST”) Cybersecurity Framework; 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

use various third-party software testing products and services designed to test and assess the security of our 
software; 

closely monitor emerging data protection laws and implement changes to our processes designed to comply 
with such laws; 

undertake an annual review of our policies and statements related to cybersecurity; 

proactively  inform  our  customers  of  substantive  changes  related  to  customer  data  handling  through 
disclosures in our SOC 2 Type 2 report or other contractually mandated disclosures; 

conduct  annual  cybersecurity  training  for  employees  and  contractors  with  access  to  PDF  systems  and 
sensitive data; 

conduct incident management training and practice for individuals with responsibilities responding to a cyber 
incident; 

conduct regular phishing email simulations for employees and contractors with access to corporate email 
systems to enhance awareness and responsiveness to such possible threats; 

use findings and root cause analysis of cybersecurity incidents to improve our cybersecurity processes and 
technologies; 

•  maintain  technologies  designed  to  provide  network  and  endpoint  monitoring,  regular  vulnerability 
assessments, and annual penetration testing to improve our information systems, as such term is defined in 
Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K; 

• 

carry information security risk insurance that provides protection against the potential losses arising from a 
cybersecurity incident; 

•  maintain  an  employee  handbook,  Code  of  Conduct,  and  Acceptable  Use  policy  that  makes  clear  the 

importance of cybersecurity and protection of PDF and customer intellectual property; and 

• 

our incident response policy and plan specify the activities we take to prepare for, detect, respond to and 
recover from cybersecurity incidents, which include processes to triage, assess severity for, escalate, contain, 
investigate, and remediate the incident, as well as to comply with potentially applicable legal and reporting 
obligations  and  mitigate  brand  and  reputational  damage. We  regularly exercise  and  update  the  plan  after 
actual incident responses or simulated incident response scenarios. 

35 

Table of Contents 

We subscribe to several external independent monitoring services to score and assess our externally facing network 
and  information  services  and  we  engage  a  third-party  security  firm  at  least  annually  to  conduct  external  and  web 
penetration testing exercises on our corporate network and our commercial SaaS service platform. 

Our processes also address cybersecurity threat risks associated with our use of third-party service providers, including 
those in our supply chain or who have access to our customer and employee data or to our systems. Third-party risks are 
included within our broader overall risk assessment and management process, as well as our cybersecurity-specific risk 
identification program, both of which are discussed above. In addition, cybersecurity considerations affect the selection 
and oversight of our third-party service providers during vendor onboarding and during periodic reviews. We perform 
diligence on third parties that have access to our systems, data or facilities that house such systems or data, and regularly 
monitor cybersecurity threat risks identified through such diligence. Additionally, we generally require those third parties 
that could introduce significant cybersecurity risk to us to agree by contract to manage their cybersecurity risks in specified 
ways, and to agree to be subject to cybersecurity audits or independent information security assessments or certifications. 
Additionally,  we  have  processes  designed  to  monitor  public  and  federal  government  database  and  other  sources  for 
evidence of known and/or exploited vulnerabilities in third-party services including those provided as SaaS and we take 
action to remediate or establish compensating controls if those systems are determined to be critical to our cybersecurity. 
We also maintain disaster recovery plans in place for all mission critical parts of the business, although we do not have a 
business continuity plan developed to account for all continuity risks. 

We  describe  whether  and  how  risks  from  identified  cybersecurity  threats,  including  as  a  result  of  any  previous 
cybersecurity incidents, have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business 
strategy, results of operations, or financial condition, under the headings “We are exposed to risks related to information 
technology infrastructure, information management and protection, cybersecurity threats, and cyber incidents.” and “Our 
business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations, including with 
respect to environmental, social and governance matters that could expose us to numerous risks.” included as part of our 
risk factor disclosures at Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. 

For  more  than  5  years,  we  have  not  experienced  any  material  cybersecurity  incidents  and  the  expenses  we  have 
incurred from cybersecurity incidents were immaterial. This includes penalties and settlements, of which there were none. 

Cybersecurity Governance 

Information technology and data security, particularly cybersecurity, is a top area of focus for our Board of Directors, 
who views our focus in these areas as essential for the success of our company and the broader technology industry in 
which we operate.  

As described in the Audit Committee Charter of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee is tasked with oversight 
of certain risk issues, including cybersecurity. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors, two 
of whom have significant work experience related to information security issues or oversight. Management reports high 
severity  security  incidents  to  the  Audit  Committee  after  they  are  discovered.  Additionally,  management  provides  a 
summary four times per year of all security incidents to the Audit Committee. The full Board of Directors is also provided 
an annual assessment of our security program, our internal response preparedness, and assessments led by outside assessors 
and auditors. 

Our Audit Committee is regularly involved in reviewing cybersecurity risk management. At least quarterly, the Vice 
President of Operations presents and reviews key security metrics with the Audit Committee including a review of cyber-
security events, cybersecurity initiatives and new or developing cybersecurity risks relevant to the business. The Audit 
Committee, which comprises at least two individuals with experience in cybersecurity and related matters, meets with 
these members of senior management to review our information technology and data security policies and practices, and 
to assess current and projected threats, cybersecurity incidents, and related risks. Our Vice President of Operations reports 
directly to our executive management team and advises the company on cybersecurity risks and assesses the effectiveness 
of information technology and data security processes and business policies impacting our overall cybersecurity risk. 

36 

Table of Contents 

Our cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes, which are discussed in greater detail above, are led by our 
Vice President of Operations and a cross section of subject matter experts from Information Technology, Exensio Cloud 
Operations and Corporate Legal and team. Such individuals have collectively over 30 years of prior work experience in 
various  roles  involving  managing  information  security,  data  privacy  risks  and  regulatory  frameworks,  developing 
cybersecurity strategy, implementing effective information and cybersecurity programs and experience in security controls 
testing and the planning and executing of independent cybersecurity assessments.  

Our Incident Response Policy is reviewed annually and documents the controls and procedures for timely and accurate 
reporting of material cybersecurity incidents to the relevant parties, including the Audit Committee when applicable. Our 
Incident Response Team leads the response to any reported cybersecurity event and comprises experts from Engineering, 
Information Technology, Legal, Cloud Operations, and Data Security. 

The Vice President of Operations and Executive Vice President of Products and Solutions are informed about and 
monitor the prevention, mitigation, detection, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents through their management of, 
and participation  in,  the  cybersecurity  risk  management and  strategy processes described  above  including  the  incident 
response. 

Item 2. Properties 

Our principal executive offices are located in Santa Clara, California, where we lease approximately 20,800 square 
feet of office space under a lease agreement that expires in August 2028. We also lease additional facilities and offices in 
Milpitas, California; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Richardson, Texas; Salt Lake City, Utah; Deer Park, Illinois; Shanghai, 
China;  Canada;  France;  Germany;  Italy;  Japan;  South  Korea;  and  Taiwan  for  local  sales,  product  development  and 
technical support. 

We believe our existing and planned facilities and offices are adequate to meet our current needs and are being utilized 
consistently with our past practice. We consistently look for opportunities to minimize costs related to office space through 
improved efficiencies and intend to make changes to leased facilities in the future as appropriate to reflect changes in 
worldwide operations and headcount. 

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 

From time to time, the Company is subject to various claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course 
of business. The Company accrues for losses related to litigation when a potential loss is probable and the loss can be 
reasonably estimated in accordance with FASB requirements. As of December 31, 2023, the Company was not party to 
any material legal proceedings for which a loss was probable or an amount was accrued. 

On May 6, 2020, the Company initiated an arbitration proceeding with the Hong Kong International Arbitration Center 
against SMIC New Technology Research & Development (Shanghai) Corporation (“SMIC”) due to SMIC’s failure to pay 
fees due to the Company under a series of contracts. The Company seeks to recover the unpaid fees, a declaration requiring 
SMIC to pay fees under the contracts in the future (or a lump sum payment to end the contract), and costs associated with 
bringing the arbitration proceeding. SMIC denies liability and an arbitration hearing was held in February 2023. Final 
written submissions were submitted by the parties at the end of August 2023. A decision is currently expected in 2024. 

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 

Not applicable. 

37 

 
 
Table of Contents 

PART II 

Item 5. Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities 

Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “PDFS.” As of February 23, 2024, we had 
approximately 24 stockholders of record. The number of stockholders of record does not include individuals whose stock 
is in nominee or “street name” accounts through brokers. 

Dividend Policy 

No cash dividends were declared or paid in 2023, 2022 and 2021. We currently intend to retain all available funds to 
finance  future  growth,  product  development,  and  stock  repurchases and,  therefore,  do  not  anticipate  paying  any  cash 
dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. 

Stock Performance Graph 

The performance graph shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise 
subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of PDF 
Solutions under the Securities Act, or the Exchange Act.  

The following graph and tables compare the cumulative total stockholder return data for our stock since December 31, 
2018, to the cumulative return over such period of (i) The Nasdaq Composite Index and (ii) The S&P 600 Information 
Technology (Sector) (TR) Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2018. The graph and tables 
further assume that such amount was initially invested in the Common Stock of the Company at a per share price of $8.43 
(closing  price  on  December 31,  2018)  and  that  any  dividends  were  reinvested.  This  performance  graph  and  the 
corresponding tables are not “soliciting material,” are not deemed filed with the SEC and are not to be incorporated by 
reference in any filing by us under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof 
and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing. The stock price performance on the following 
graph and tables is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 

38 

 
 
Table of Contents 

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities 

None. 

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers 

On  April 11,  2022,  the  Board  of  Directors  adopted  a  new  stock  repurchase  program  (the  “2022  Program”)  to 
repurchase  up to  $35.0  million of  the  Company’s  common  stock  both  on  the open market  and  in privately  negotiated 
transactions,  from  time  to  time,  over  the  next  two  years.  During  the  year  ended  December 31,  2023,  the  Company 
repurchased 21,340 shares under the 2022 Program at an average price of $34.81 per share for an aggregate total price of 
$0.7  million.  During  the  year  ended  December 31,  2022,  the  Company  repurchased  714,600  shares  under  the  2022 
Program at an average price of $23.36 per share for an aggregate total price of $16.7 million. In total, the Company has 
repurchased 735,940 shares under the 2022 Program at an average price of $23.69 per share for an aggregate total price of 
$17.4 million. 

There were no purchases made by or on behalf of the Company or any “affiliated purchaser” (as the term is defined 
in  Rule 10b - 18(a)(3) under  the  Exchange  Act)  of  the  Company’s  common  stock  during  the  fourth  quarter  ended 
December 31, 2023. 

Item 6. Reserved 

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Overview 

We  offer  products  and  services  designed  to  empower  organizations  across  the  semiconductor  and  electronics 
ecosystems to connect, collect, manage, and analyze data about design, equipment, manufacturing, and test to improve the 
yield  and  quality  of  their  products.  We  derive  revenues  from  two  sources:  Analytics  and  Integrated  Yield  Ramp.  Our 
offerings combine proprietary software, professional services using proven methodologies and third-party cloud-hosting 
platforms for SaaS, electrical measurement hardware tools, and physical IP for IC designs. We primarily monetize our 
offerings  through  license  fees  and  contract  fees  for  professional  services  and  SaaS.  In  some  cases,  especially  on  our 
historical  Integrated  Yield  Ramp  engagements,  we  also  receive  a  value-based  variable  fee  or  royalty,  which  we  call 
Gainshare. Our products, services, and solutions have been sold to IDMs, fabless semiconductor companies, foundries, 
OSATs, capital equipment manufacturers and system houses. 

Industry Trends 

Certain trends may affect our Analytics revenue specifically. In particular, the confluence of Industry 4.0 (i.e. the 
fourth industrial revolution, or the automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies and processes) and cloud 
computing (i.e. the on-demand availability of computing resources and data storage without direct active management by 
the user) is driving increased innovation in semiconductor and electronics manufacturing and analytics, as well as in the 
organization of information technology (“IT”) networks and computing at semiconductor and electronics companies across 
the ecosystem. First, the ubiquity of wireless connectivity and sensor technology enables any manufacturing company to 
augment its factories and visualize its entire production line. In parallel, the cost per terabyte of data storage has generally 
decreases over time. The combination of these two trends means that more data is collected and stored than ever before. 
Further, semiconductor companies are striving to analyze these very large data sets in real-time to make rapid decisions 
that measurably improve manufacturing efficiency and quality. In parallel, the traditional practice of on-site data storage, 
even for highly sensitive data, is changing. The ability to cost-effectively and securely store, analyze, and retrieve massive 
quantities of data from the cloud versus on-premise enables data to be utilized across a much broader population of users, 
frequently  resulting  in  greater  demands  on  analytics  programs.  The  combination  of  these  latter  two  trends  means  that 
cloud-based, analytic programs that effectively manage identity management, physical security, and data protection are 
increasingly in demand for insights and efficiencies across the organizations of these companies. We believe that all these 
trends  will  continue  for  the  next  few  years,  and  the  challenges  involved  in  adopting  Industry  4.0  and  secure  cloud 
computing  will  create  opportunities  for  our  combination  of  advanced  analytics  capabilities,  proven  and  established 
supporting infrastructure, and professional services to configure our products to meet customers’ specialized needs. 

39 

Table of Contents 

Other  trends  may  continue  to  affect  our  Characterization  services  business  and  Integrated  Yield  Ramp  revenue 
specifically. For example, semiconductor manufacturers have recently been experiencing lower wafer shipments, which 
has  negatively  impacted  our  Integrated  Yield  Ramp  gainshare  revenue.  The  logic  foundry  market  at  the  leading-edge 
nodes,  such  as  7nm,  5nm,  and  smaller,  underwent  significant  change  over  the  past  few  years.  The  leading  foundry 
continues to dominate market share. This trend will likely continue to impact our Characterization services business on 
these nodes. We expect most logic foundries to invest in derivatives of older process nodes, such as 28nm and 14nm, to 
extract additional value as many of their customers will not move to advanced nodes due to either technological barriers 
or  restrictive  economics.  Foundries  that  participate  at  leading  edge  nodes  are  expected  to  continue  to  invest  in  new 
technologies  such  as  memory,  packaging,  and  multi-patterned  and  extreme  ultraviolet  lithography,  as  well  as  new 
innovations in process control and variability management. We expect China’s investment in semiconductors to continue. 
Compliance with changing U.S. export restrictions limit our possible business with Chinese semiconductor manufacturers 
on advanced nodes. As a result of these market developments, we have chosen to focus our resources and investments in 
products, services, and solutions for analytics. 

There are other global or business trends that may affect our business opportunities generally as follows:  

•  Macroeconomy,  inventories,  and  demand.  The  worldwide  economy  did  not  recover  as  strongly  or  quickly  as 
expected after the COVID - 19 pandemic, and recession fears persist. As a result of the slow recovery, inventories 
of semiconductor devices remain elevated in many instances. The strength of demand for semiconductor products 
has varied by region and product segment. For example, demand for graphical processing unit products is strong, 
while demand for smart phones is weak. With high inventories and soft demand, semiconductor fab utilization 
rates are also low and semiconductor capital equipment orders have been impacted for some vendors and market 
segments. As a result of these trends, customers are being cautious with their spend and some purchase cycles are 
lengthening and other purchase decisions are being delayed, particularly with respect to larger deals.    

•  Changing export controls and sanctions. The U.S. government continues to expand and intensify export controls 
and  sanctions,  with  a  major  focus  on  the  destinations  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  (“P.R.C.”),  Russian 
Federation,  and  Belarus.  After  an  internal  evaluation,  we  determined  that  a  large  percentage  of  our  software 
products  are  not  of  U.S.  origin  and  are,  thus,  not  subject  to  the  EAR.  Our  standard  operations  include 
development,  distribution  processes,  software  download  sites,  and  professional  service  centers  and  processes 
located in various geographies around the world to better serve our customers. Some customers in the P.R.C., in 
particular,  have  nonetheless  expressed  concerns  to  us  that  continued  action  by  the  U.S.  government  could 
potentially interrupt their ability to make use of our products or services, which has in some cases, and could in 
the future, negatively impact the demand for our products and services by these customers. In October 2022 and 
October 2023,  the  U.S.  government  issued  interim  final  rules  adding  novel  and  complex  export  control 
restrictions, some exclusions, and requests for public comment. In light of questions about some restrictions and 
guidance, the U.S. government announced on November 6, 2023 that it was developing revisions to such rules to 
make corrections and clarifications. We believe the government will issue these revisions in 2024, along with 
additional restrictions. U.S. government policy and regulation remain fluid and uncertain. Other countries and 
jurisdictions with important roles in our industry are updating some of their export control regulations to further 
align with those of the U.S. government and, in some cases, to counter U.S. regulations. For example, the P.R.C. 
has imposed restrictions on imports of certain memory ICs offered by U.S. companies and has been developing 
its legal authorities to counter foreign sanctions. The U.S. government is renewing and amplifying its caution that 
visitors to the P.R.C. are subject to arbitrary enforcement of local laws and wrongful detention, a risk that could 
deter or hinder certain business activities. Based on our current assessments, we expect the near-term impact of 
these expanded trade restrictions on our business to be limited, but revisions, clarifications, and proposals that 
are still in government development and open questions of interpretation leave much unknown. We will continue 
to monitor for any further trade restrictions, other regulatory or policy changes by the U.S. or foreign governments 
and any actions in response.  The uncertainty caused by these recent regulations and the potential for additional 
future restrictions could negatively affect our future sales in the P.R.C. market. 

• 

Investments in semiconductor manufacturing. In 2022, the U.S. Congress passed into law funding programs from 
the bipartisan CHIPS Act, authorizing the Department of Commerce, Department of Defense, and Department of 
State to develop onshore domestic manufacturing of semiconductors considered critical to U.S. competitiveness 

40 

Table of Contents 

and national security. It is expected that U.S. semiconductor companies, especially manufacturers, will increase 
spending as a result of receiving funds under these programs. Recipients of funding under such programs may be 
required  to  agree  to  separate  restrictions  on  certain  commercial  activity  in  the  P.R.C.,  where  we  currently 
commercially operate. If our customers engage us for projects funded by these programs, we will evaluate all 
restrictions, and their impact on our existing business, before entering into any contracts associated with these 
programs.   

•  Geopolitical tensions/conflicts. Geopolitical tensions and conflicts in various locations around the world continue 
to increase, including on the issue of Taiwan in Asia, Ukraine and Russia, and most recently between Israel and 
Hamas.  These  current  situations  have  created  volatility  in  the  global  financial  markets  and  may  have  further 
global  economic  consequences,  including  potential  disruptions  of  the  global  supply  chain  and  heightened 
volatility  of  commodity  and  raw  material  prices.  This  has  increased  fears  of  a  global  recession.  We  have 
contractors  located  in  the  West  Bank  and  in  Israel,  who  are  providing  software  development  and  customer 
technical support services, and have developed contingency plans to use alternative resources to continue serving 
customers,  if  needed.  Any  escalations  could  lead  to  disruptions  or  reductions  in  international  trade,  deter  or 
prevent purchasing activity of customers, and negatively impact our development timelines and customer support 
(with respect to the Israel-Hamas conflict) or China sales (with respect to U.S.-P.R.C. tensions) and financial 
results in general (with respect to global tensions). 

Financial Highlights 

The following are our financial highlights for the year ended December 31, 2023: 

•  Total  revenues  were  $165.8  million,  an  increase  of  $17.3  million,  or  12%,  compared  to  the year  ended 
December 31, 2022. Analytics revenue was $152.1 million, an increase of $21.6 million, or 17%, compared to 
the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in Analytics revenue was driven by increases in revenue from 
DFI and CV systems, including sales-type leases of DFI assets, and an increase in revenue from Exensio software 
licenses, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from Cimetrix software licenses due to a decrease in orders for 
runtime licenses. Integrated Yield Ramp revenue decreased $4.3 million, or 24%, compared to the year ended 
December 31, 2022, primarily due to a decrease in hours worked on fixed fee engagements and a decrease in 
Gainshare from decreased customer wafer shipments at non-leading-edge nodes. 

•  Costs  of  revenues  increased  $3.8  million  for  the year  ended  December 31,  2023,  compared  to  the year  ended 
December 31, 2022, primarily due to increases in hardware costs, travel expenses, subcontractor fees and software 
licenses and maintenance costs. These increases were partially offset by decreases in personnel-related costs. 

•  Net income was $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to a net loss of $3.4 million for 
the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in net income was primarily attributable to (i) an increase in 
total revenues, (ii) an increase in interest income, (iii) a decrease in research and development expenses and (iv) a 
decrease in income tax expenses, partially offset by increases in (a) costs of revenues, (b) selling, general, and 
administrative expenses, which were primarily related to increases in personnel-related costs, travel expenses, 
legal  fees  related  to  the  arbitration  proceeding  over  a  disputed  customer  contract,  third-party  cloud-services 
related  costs,  property  tax  expenses,  general  legal  expenses,  trade  conference-related  expenses,  and  business 
acquisition costs, and (c) foreign currency transaction exchange losses. 

•  Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased $3.7 million to $135.5 million as of December 31, 
2023, from $139.2 million as of December 31, 2022, primarily due to payments to vendors, payments of accrued 
bonuses and income taxes, purchases of and prepayments for property and equipment, payments of taxes related 
to net share settlement of equity awards, payments for a business acquisition, and repurchases of common stock, 
partially offset by cash collection from customers, interest income from cash, cash equivalents and short-term 
investments, and proceeds from purchases under our employee stock purchase plan and exercise of stock options. 

41 

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements describe the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.  We  consider  the  accounting  policies  described  below  to  be  our  critical  accounting  policies.  These  critical 
accounting policies are impacted significantly by judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these 
policies. 

Revenue Recognition 

We derive revenue from two sources: Analytics and Integrated Yield Ramp. 

Analytics Revenue 

Analytics  revenue  is  derived  from  the  following  primary  offerings:  licenses  and  services  for  standalone 
Software (which  consists  primarily  of  Exensio  and  Cimetrix  products),  SaaS  (which  consists  primarily  of  Exensio 
products), and DFI and CV systems (including Characterization services) that do not include performance incentives based 
on customers’ yield achievement. 

Revenue  from  standalone  software  is  recognized  depending  on  whether  the  license  is  perpetual  or  time-based. 
Perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the time of the inception of the arrangement when control 
transfers to the customers, if the software license is distinct from the services offered by us. Revenue from post-contract 
support  is  recognized  over  the  contract  term  on  a  straight-line  basis,  because  we  are providing  (i) support  and 
(ii) unspecified  software  updates  on  a  when-and-if  available  basis  over  the  contract  term.  Revenue  from  time-based-
licensed software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized either at a point in time or over time as 
follows.  The  license  component  is  recognized  at  the  time when  control  transfers  to  customers,  with  the  post-contract 
support component recognized ratably over the committed term of the contract. For contracts with any combination of 
licenses,  support,  and other services,  distinct  performance  obligations  are  accounted for  separately.  For  contracts with 
multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a 
relative basis using the standalone selling price (“SSP”) attributed to each performance obligation. 

Revenue  from  SaaS  arrangements, which  allow  for  the  use  of  a  cloud-based  software  product  or  service  over  a 
contractually determined period of time without taking possession of software, is accounted for as subscriptions and is 
recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the subscription period beginning on the date the service is 
first made available to customers. 

Revenue from DFI systems and CV systems (including Characterization services) that do not include performance 
incentives  based  on  customers’  yield  achievement  is  recognized  primarily  as  services  are  performed. Where  there  are 
distinct  performance obligations, we  allocate  revenue  to all  deliverables  based on  their SSPs.  For  these  contracts with 
multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a 
relative basis using SSP attributed to each performance obligation. Where there are not discrete performance obligations, 
historically, revenue is primarily recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method based on 
costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. 
The  estimation  of percentage  of  completion  method  is  complex  and  subject  to  many  variables  that  require  significant 
judgment. 

The Company also leases some of its DFI system and CV system assets to some customers. The Company determines 
the existence of a lease when the customer controls the use of these identified assets for a period of time defined in the 
lease agreement and classifies such leases as operating leases or sales-type leases. A lease is classified as a sales-type lease 
if it meets certain criteria under Topic 842, Leases; otherwise, it is classified as an operating lease. Operating lease revenue 
is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Sales-type lease revenue and corresponding lease receivables are 

42 

Table of Contents 

recognized at lease commencement based on the present value of the future lease payments, and related interest income 
on  lease  receivable  is  recognized  over  the  lease  term  and  are  recorded  under  Analytics  Revenue  in  the  Consolidated 
Statements  of  Comprehensive  Income  (Loss).  Payments  under  sales-type  leases  are  discounted  using  the  interest  rate 
implicit  in  the  lease.  When  the  Company’s  leases  are  embedded  in  contracts  with  customers  that  include  non-lease 
performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration in the contract between lease and non-lease components 
based on their relative SSPs. Assets subject to operating leases remain in Property and equipment, net and continue to be 
depreciated. Assets subject to sales-type leases are derecognized from Property and equipment at lease commencement 
and a net investment in the lease asset is recognized in Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other non-current 
assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue 

Integrated  Yield  Ramp  revenue  is  derived  from  our  yield  ramp  engagements  that include  Gainshare  or  other 

performance incentives based on customers’ yield achievement. 

Revenue under these project–based contracts, which are delivered over a specific period of time typically for a fixed 
fee component paid on a set schedule, is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method 
based  on  costs  or  labor-inputs,  whichever  is  the  most  appropriate  measure  of  the  progress  towards  completion  of  the 
contract. Where there are distinct performance obligations, we allocate revenue to all deliverables based on their SSPs and 
allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP. Similar to the 
services provided in connection with DFI systems and CV systems that are contributing to Analytics revenue, due to the 
nature of the work performed in these arrangements, the estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and 
subject to many variables that require significant judgment. 

The Gainshare royalty contained in yield ramp contracts is a variable fee related to continued usage of our IP after the 
fixed-fee service period ends, based on the customers’ yield achievement. Revenue derived from Gainshare is contingent 
upon our customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare royalty periods are generally subsequent 
to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. We record Gainshare as a usage-based royalty 
derived from customers’ usage of IP and record it in the same period in which the usage occurs. 

Income Taxes 

We are required to assess whether it is “more likely than not” that we will realize our deferred tax assets. If we believe 
that they are not likely to be fully realizable before the expiration dates applicable to such assets, then to the extent we 
believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. Based on all available evidence, both positive 
and negative, we determined a full valuation allowance was still appropriate for our U.S. federal and state net deferred tax 
assets (“DTAs”), primarily driven by a cumulative loss incurred over the 12 - quarter period ended December 31, 2023, and 
the likelihood that we may not utilize tax attributes before they expire. The valuation allowance was approximately $64.2 
million and $59.2 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We will continue to evaluate the need for a 
valuation  allowance  and  may  change  our  conclusion  in  a  future  period  based  on  changes  in  facts  (e.g.,  12 - quarter 
cumulative profit, significant new revenue, etc.). If we conclude that we are more likely than not to utilize some or all of 
our U.S. DTAs, we will release some or all of our valuation allowance and our tax provision will decrease in the period in 
which we make such determination. 

We  evaluate  our  DTAs  for  realizability  considering  both  positive  and  negative  evidence,  including  our  historical 
financial performance, projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax 
planning strategies and any carryback availability. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future 
taxable income based on management approved business plans. This process involves significant management judgment 
about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between 
future projected operating performance and actual results. Changes in the net DTAs, less offsetting valuation allowance, 
in a period are recorded through the income tax provision and could have a material impact on the Consolidated Statements 
of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 

43 

Table of Contents 

Our income tax calculations are based on the application of applicable U.S. federal, state, and/or foreign tax law. Our 
tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. Accordingly, we recognize tax liabilities based 
upon our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more-likely-
than-not to be sustained. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of 
being sustained. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different than the amounts originally accrued, the increases or 
decreases  are  recorded  as  income  tax  expense  or  benefit  in  the  Consolidated  Statements  of  Comprehensive  Income 
(Loss). As of December 31, 2023, no deferred taxes have been provided on undistributed earnings from our international 
subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations indefinitely. As such, we 
have not provided for any foreign withholding taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2023. The 
earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are taxable in the U.S. in the year earned under the Global Intangible Low-Taxed 
Income rules implemented under 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 

The  CHIPS  Act  was  signed  into  U.S.  law  on  August 9,  2022.  The  CHIPS  Act  is  intended  to  increase  domestic 
competitiveness in semiconductor manufacturing capacity, increase research and development in computing, AI, clean 
energy, and nanotechnology through federal government programs and incentives over the next ten years. The CHIPS Act 
includes  an  advanced  manufacturing  tax  credit  equal  to  25%  of  qualified  investments  in  property  purchased  for  an 
advanced manufacturing facility. We have begun to see some benefit from the CHIPS Act to our business, but the extent 
of future benefit is still unknown. 

Stock-Based Compensation 

We  account for  stock-based  compensation using  the  fair value  method, which  requires  us  to  measure  stock-based 
compensation based on the grant-date fair value of the awards and recognize the compensation expense over the requisite 
service period. As stock-based compensation expense recognized is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has 
been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent 
periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. 

The fair value of our restricted stock units is equal to the market value of our common stock on the date of the grant. 

These awards are subject to time-based vesting which generally occurs over a period of four years. 

The fair value of our stock options and purchase rights granted under employee stock purchase plans is estimated 
using  the  Black-Scholes-Merton  option-pricing  model,  which  incorporates  various  assumptions  including  volatility, 
expected life and interest rates. The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our common stock over the 
most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected life of our stock options and purchase rights granted under 
employee stock purchase plans. The expected life is based on historical experience and on the terms and conditions of the 
options granted and purchase rights granted under employee stock purchase plans. The interest rate assumption is based 
upon observed Treasury yield curve rates appropriate for the expected life of our stock options and purchase rights granted 
under employee stock purchase plans. 

Business Combinations 

We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible 
assets acquired based on their estimated fair values at the date of the business combination. The excess of the fair value of 
purchase  consideration  over  the  fair  values  of  these  identifiable  assets  and  liabilities  is  recorded  as  goodwill.  Such 
valuations require us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant 
estimates  in  valuing  certain  intangible  assets  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  estimated  replacement  costs  and  future 
expected  cash  flows  from  acquired  customers,  acquired  technology,  acquired  patents,  and  trade  names  from  a  market 
participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. The estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed 
to  be reasonable,  but  which are  inherently uncertain  and unpredictable and,  as  a result,  actual  results  may  differ  from 
estimates. Allocation of purchase consideration to identifiable assets and liabilities affects our amortization expense, as 
acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their useful life, whereas any indefinite lived intangible assets, 
including in-process research and development and goodwill, are not amortized. During the measurement period, which 
is not to exceed one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, 

44 

Table of Contents 

with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments 
are recorded to earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 

Valuation of Long-lived Assets including Goodwill and Intangible Assets 

We record goodwill when the purchase consideration of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and 
identified  intangible  assets  as  of  the  date  of  acquisition.  We  have  one  operating  segment  and  one  operating  unit.  We 
perform an annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or more frequently, 
if required to determine if any events or circumstances exist, such as an adverse change in business climate or a decline in 
the overall industry demand, that would indicate that it would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit 
below its carrying amount, including goodwill. If events or circumstances do not indicate that the fair value of a reporting 
unit is below its carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is required. If the 
carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized equal to the amount of excess, limited to 
the amount of total goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 
2021. 

Our  long-lived  assets,  excluding  goodwill,  consist  of  property,  equipment,  and  intangible  assets.  We  periodically 
review our long-lived assets for impairment. For assets to be held and used, we initiate our review whenever events or 
changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that  the  carrying  amount  of  a  long-lived  asset  group  may  not  be  recoverable. 
Recoverability of an asset group is measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted 
cash  flows  that  the  asset  group  is  expected  to  generate.  If  it  is  determined  that  an  asset  group  is  not  recoverable,  an 
impairment loss is recorded in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. There 
was no impairment of intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. In fiscal 2021, we wrote 
down the value of property and equipment aggregating $3.2 million pertaining to our first-generation of e-beam tools for 
DFI™ systems where carrying values may not be fully recoverable due to lack of market demand and future needs of our 
customers for these tools. 

Leases 

We have operating leases for our administrative and sales offices, research and development laboratory and clean 
room. We recognize our long-term operating lease rights and commitments as operating lease right-of-use assets, operating 
lease liabilities and operating lease liabilities, non-current, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

We determine if an arrangement is, or contains, a lease at inception. Operating lease right-of-use assets, and operating 
lease liabilities are initially recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Lease terms include 
the  minimum  unconditional  term  of  the  lease,  and  may  include  options  to  extend  or  terminate  the  lease  when  it  is 
reasonably certain at the commencement date that such options will be exercised. The decision to include these options 
involves consideration of our overall future business plans and other relevant business economic factors that may affect 
our business. Since the determination of the lease term requires an application of judgment, lease terms that differ in reality 
from our initial judgment may potentially have a material impact on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, our 
leases do not provide an implicit rate. In determining the present value of our expected lease payments, the discount rate 
is  calculated  using  our  incremental  borrowing  rate  determined  based  on  the  information  available,  which  requires 
additional judgment. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Accounting Changes 

See our Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of “Notes to Consolidated 
Financial  Statements”  included  under  Part  II,  Item  8  of  this  Form 10 - K  for  a  description  of  recent  accounting 
pronouncements and accounting changes, including the dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated 
financial statements. 

45 

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations 

Discussion of Financial Data for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 

Revenues, Costs of Revenues, and Gross Margin 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Revenues: 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2021 

2023 

$ Change % Change  $ Change   % Change

2022 to 2023 

2021 to 2022 

Analytics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $ 152,085    $ 130,480
Integrated Yield Ramp . . .        13,750   
   18,069
  148,549
Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . .       165,835   
   47,907
Costs of revenues  . . . . . . . .        51,749   
Gross profit  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $ 114,086    $ 100,642
Gross margin . . . . . . . . . . . .      

 69  %   

68 %

$ 93,415
17,645
111,060
44,193
$ 66,867

$ 21,605
(4,319)
17,286
3,842
$ 13,444

60 %

17 %  $ 37,065   
(24)%    
 424   
12 %     37,489   
 8 %      3,714   
13 %  $ 33,775   

40 %
2 %
34 %
8 %
51 %

Analytics revenue as a 
percentage of total 
revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
Integrated Yield Ramp 
revenue as a percentage 
of total revenues  . . . . . . . . . .  

Analytics Revenue 

 92  %   

88 %

84 %

 8  %   

12 %

16 %

Analytics revenue was $152.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of $21.6 million, or 17%, 
compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in Analytics revenue was driven by increases in revenue 
from DFI and CV systems, including sales-type leases of DFI assets, and an increase in revenue from Exensio software 
licenses, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from Cimetrix software licenses due to a decrease in orders for runtime 
licenses. 

Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue 

Integrated Yield Ramp revenue was $13.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, a decrease of $4.3 million, 
or  24%,  compared  to  the year  ended  December 31,  2022,  primarily  due  to  a  decrease  in  hours  worked  on  fixed  fee 
engagements and a decrease in Gainshare from decreased customer wafer shipments at non-leading-edge nodes. 

Our Integrated Yield Ramp revenue may continue to fluctuate from period to period primarily due to the contribution 
of Gainshare royalty, which is dependent on many factors that are outside our control, including among others, continued 
production of ICs by our customers at facilities at which we generate Gainshare, sustained yield improvements by our 
customers, and whether we enter into new contracts containing Gainshare. 

Our revenues may also fluctuate in the future due to other factors, including the semiconductor industry’s continued 
acceptance of our products, services and solutions, the timing of purchases by existing and new customers, cancellations 
by existing customers, our ability to attract new customers and penetrate new markets, supply chain challenges and further 
penetration of our current customer base. Fluctuations in future results may also occur if any of our significant customers 
renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments, including due to adverse changes in their own business. 

Costs of Revenues 

Costs  of  revenues  consist  primarily  of  costs  incurred  to  provide  and  support  our  services,  costs  recognized  in 
connection with licensing our software, IT and facilities-related costs and amortization of acquired technology. Service 
costs include material costs, hardware costs (including cost of leased assets under sales-type leases), personnel-related 
costs (including compensation, employee benefits, bonus and stock-based compensation expense), subcontractor costs, 

46 

 
 
 
    
   
  
     
    
    
 
 
 
    
   
 
      
 
 
   
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
Table of Contents 

overhead costs, travel expenses, and allocated facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated 
with third-party cloud-delivery related expenses and licensing third-party software used by us in providing services to our 
customers in solution engagements or sold in conjunction with our software products. 

The increase in costs of revenues of $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended 
December 31, 2022, was primarily due to (i) a $3.5 million increase in hardware costs, (ii) a $0.4 million increase in travel 
expenses,  (iii)  a  $0.2  million  increase  in  subcontractor  fees,  and  (iv) a  $0.2  million  increase  in  software  licenses  and 
maintenance costs. These increases were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in personnel-related costs due to lower 
compensation expenses, partially offset by an increase in stock-based compensation expense. 

Gross Margin 

Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2023, was 69% compared to 68% for the year ended December 31, 
2022, or  an  increase  of  1  percentage  point.  The  higher  gross  margin  during the  year  ended  December 31,  2023,  was 
primarily due to higher total revenue when compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. 

Operating Expenses: 

Research and Development 

(Dollars in thousands)       2023 
Research and 
development . . . . . . . . . .    $  50,736  
As a percentage of 
total revenues . . . . . . . . .   

 31 %    

38 %  

39 %  

Year Ended December 31, 
2022 

2021 

$ Change % Change
2022 to 2023 

$ Change   % Change
2021 to 2022 

$  56,126

$ 43,780

$ (5,390)

(10)%  $  12,346    

28 %

Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs (including compensation, employee 
benefits, bonus and stock-based compensation expense), outside development services, travel expenses, third-party cloud-
services related costs, IT and facilities cost allocations to support product development activities. 

Research and development expenses decreased $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the 
year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to (i) a $5.8 million decrease in personnel-related costs mostly resulting 
from a lower stock-based and other compensation expenses, partially offset by worldwide salary increases and increases 
in headcount, and (ii) a $0.5 million decrease in facilities and IT-related costs including depreciation expense. These were 
partially offset by (a) a $0.3 million increase in third-party cloud-services related costs, (b) a $0.3 million increase in travel 
expenses, and (c) a $0.2 million increase in subcontractor expenses primarily related to Cimetrix and Exensio software. 

We anticipate our expenses in research and development will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period as a 

result of the size and the timing of product development projects. 

Selling, General, and Administrative 

(Dollars in thousands)       2023 
Selling, general, and 
administrative  . . . . . . . .    $  62,216  
As a percentage of 
total revenues . . . . . . . . .   

 38 %    

31 %  

34 %  

Year Ended December 31, 
2022 

2021 

$ Change % Change
2022 to 2023 

$ Change   % Change
2021 to 2022 

$  45,338

$ 37,649

$ 16,878

37 %  $   7,689  

20 %

Selling, general, and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs (including compensation, 
employee  benefits,  bonus,  commission  and  stock-based  compensation  expense  for  sales,  marketing,  and  general  and 

47 

 
 
     
   
   
    
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
     
   
   
    
  
 
 
  
   
 
Table of Contents 

administrative  personnel),  legal,  tax  and  accounting  services,  marketing  communications  and  trade  conference-related 
expenses, third-party cloud-services related costs, travel, IT, and facilities cost allocations. 

Selling,  general,  and  administrative  expenses  increased  $16.9  million  for  the  year  ended  December 31,  2023, 
compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to (i) a $14.5 million increase in personnel-related costs 
mainly  resulting  from  increases  in  stock-based  and  other  compensation  expense,  commission,  employee  benefit  costs, 
headcount and worldwide salary increases, (ii) a $0.8 million increase in travel expenses, (iii) a $0.7 million increase in 
legal fees related to the arbitration proceeding over a disputed customer contract, (iv) a $0.4 million increase in third-party 
cloud-services related costs, (v) a $0.3 million increase in property tax expense, (vi) a $0.3 million increase in general 
legal  expenses,  (vii)  a $0.3 million  increase  in  trade  conference-related expenses,  and (viii)  a $0.2  million  increase in 
business acquisition costs. These increases were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in subcontractor expenses. 

We anticipate our selling, general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period 

as a result of cost control initiatives and to support increased selling efforts in the future. 

Amortization of acquired intangible assets 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amortization of acquired 
intangible assets . . . . . . . . . . .   $  1,285   $  1,270

  Year Ended December 31,
    2023       2022 

    2021   

    $ Change     % Change      $ Change      % Change

2022 to 2023 

2021 to 2022 

$ 1,255

$

15

1 %  $ 

 15   

1 %

Amortization of acquired intangible assets primarily consists of amortization of intangibles acquired as a result of 
certain  business  combinations  and  was  consistent  for  the  year  ended  December 31,  2023  compared  to  the  year  ended 
December 31, 2022. 

Write-down in value of property and equipment 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Write-down in value of 
property and equipment  . . . .    $  —   $  — $ 3,183

  Year Ended December 31,     $ Change     % Change
     2023        2022 

2022 to 2023 

    2021   

$ Change      % Change
2021 to 2022 

$

—

— %   $   (3,183)   

(100) %

In fiscal 2021, we wrote down the value of property and equipment aggregating $3.2 million pertaining to our first-
generation of e-beam tools for DFI™ systems where carrying values may not be fully recoverable due to lack of market 
demand and future needs of our customers for these tools. 

Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Interest and other expense 
(income), net . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $ (5,020)  $ (2,562) $ (683)  $

  Year Ended December 31,   
     2022 
     2023 

    2021 

$ Change % Change     $ Change %  % Change

2022 to 2023 

2021 to 2022 

2,458  

96 % $ 

 1,879  

275 %

Interest  and  other  expense  (income),  net primarily  consists  of  interest  income  and  foreign  currency  transaction 

exchange gains and losses. 

Interest and other expense (income), net increased $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 
the  year  ended  December 31,  2022,  primarily  due  to  an  increase  in  interest  income  of  $4.0  million  from  cash,  cash 
equivalents and short-term investments resulting from higher interest rates, partially offset by net unfavorable fluctuations 
in foreign currency exchange rates. 

48 

 
    
 
    
 
   
Table of Contents 

Income Tax Expense 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Income tax expense . . . . . .    $ (1,764)  $ (3,899) $ (3,171)

  Year Ended December 31, 
    2021 
     2022 
     2023 

$ Change % Change
2022 to 2023 

$ (2,135)  

(55)%  $ 

$ Change   % Change
2021 to 2022 
 728   

23 %

Income  tax  expense  decreased  $2.1  million  for  the  year  ended  December 31,  2023,  compared  to  the  year  ended 
December 31,  2022,  primarily  due  to  decreases  in  state  tax  expense,  foreign  withholding  taxes  and  changes  in  the 
geographic mix of worldwide income, which is subject to taxation at different statutory tax rates. 

Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our consolidated financial position, 
results of operations, and cash flows. Our future tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including 
increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, new or changing tax legislation in the United States and in foreign 
countries where we are subject to tax jurisdictions, the geographic composition of our pre-tax income, the amount of our 
pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, our ability to use tax attributes such as research and development tax credits 
and net operation losses, the tax effects of employee stock activity, audit examinations with adverse outcomes, changes in 
general accepted accounting principles and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. 

Discussion of Financial Data for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 

For a discussion of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, please see our Annual 

Report on Form 10 - K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2023. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of December 31, 2023, our working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, was $147.0 
million, compared to $135.2 million as of December 31, 2022. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, on a 
consolidated basis, were $135.5 million as of December 31, 2023, compared to $139.2 million as of December 31, 2022. 
As of December 31, 2023, and 2022, cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries were $10.0 million and 
$8.8 million, respectively. We believe that our existing cash resources and anticipated funds from operations will satisfy 
our cash requirements to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures, and other obligations, for at least the next 
twelve months. 

Repurchase of Company’s Common Stock 

On June 4, 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a stock repurchase program (the “2020 Program”) to 
repurchase  up to  $25.0  million of  the  Company’s  common  stock  both  on  the open market  and  in privately  negotiated 
transactions, including through Rule 10b5 - 1 plans, over the next two years. During the year ended December 31, 2022, 
218,858 shares were repurchased by the Company under the 2020 Program at an average price of $26.40 per share for an 
aggregate total price of $5.8 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, 251,212 shares were repurchased by the 
Company under the 2020 Program at an average price of $18.01 per share for an aggregate total price of $4.5 million. In 
total, 470,070 shares were repurchased under the 2020 Program at an average price of $21.91 per share, for an aggregate 
total price of $10.3 million. 

On  April 11,  2022,  the  Board  of  Directors  terminated  the  2020  Program,  and  adopted  a  new  program  (the  “2022 
Program”) to repurchase up to $35.0 million of the Company’s common stock both on the open market and in privately 
negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5 - 1 plans, from time to time, over the next two years. During the year 
ended December 31, 2023, 21,340 shares were repurchased by the Company under the 2022 Program at an average price 
of $34.81 per share for an aggregate total price of $0.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2022, 714,600 shares 
were repurchased by the Company under the 2022 Program at an average price of $23.36 per share for an aggregate total 
price of $16.7 million. In total, the Company has repurchased 735,940 shares under the 2022 Program at an average price 
of $23.69 per share for an aggregate total price of $17.4 million. 

49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Table of Contents 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data 

(In thousands) 
Net cash flows provided by (used in): 
Operating activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Investing activities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and 
cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net change in cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . .

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 

Year Ended December 31,  
    2021 
2022 
2023 

$ Change 

2022 to 2023 

2021 to 2022

$ 14,600
(28,991)
(5,890)

$ 32,298
84,599
(24,307)

$ 4,243
(4,667)
(5,525)

$ 

 (17,698) 
 (113,590) 
 18,417  

(365)

(650)
$ (20,646) $ 91,940

(182)
$ (6,131)

 285  
$   (112,586) 

$

$

28,055
89,266
(18,782)

(468)
98,071

Cash  flows  provided  by  operating  activities  during  the  year  ended  December 31,  2023,  consisted  of  net  income, 
adjusted for certain non-cash items which primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation 
expense, amortization of acquired intangible expense, amortization of costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, net 
accretion of discounts on short-term investments and net change in operating assets and liabilities. 

Net cash flows provided by operating activities was $14.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared 
to  net  cash  flows  provided  by  operating  activities  of  $32.3  million  for  the  year  ended  December 31,  2022.  The  $17.7 
million decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities between the years was driven primarily by payments made 
to  vendors  and  employees,  including  under  the  Company’s  bonus  plan,  partially  offset  by  an  increase  in  net  income 
compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Net income was $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, 
compared to a net loss of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

The major contributors to the net change in operating assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2023, 

were as follows: 

•  Accounts  receivable  increased  by  $2.7  million,  primarily  due  to  an  increase  in  sales,  an  increase  in  unbilled 
accounts receivables due to timing of billing, and revenue recognition and higher contractual invoicing activity, 
partially offset by collections from customers; 

•  Prepaid expense and other current assets increased by $7.3 million, primarily due to the timing of billing of contract 
assets related to fixed-price service contracts, an increase in lease receivable from sales-type leases, and an increase 
in income tax receivable, partially offset by a decrease in prepaid expenses related to third party software licenses 
and cloud-subscription costs; 

•  Other  non-current  assets  increased  by  $4.2  million  primarily  due  to  non-current  assets  from  sales-type  leases, 
increases in non-current contract assets and costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, partially offset by the 
amortization of non-current prepaid expenses; 

•  Accounts payable decreased by $2.1 million primarily due to the timing of payments of vendor invoices; and 

•  Accrued compensation and related benefits decreased by $2.2 million primarily due to the payments of accrued 
bonuses net of new bonus accruals, a decrease in accrued commissions, partially offset by additional contributions 
to the employee stock purchase plan. 

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities 

Net cash used in investing activities was $29.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to net cash 

provided by investing activities of $84.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

50 

 
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

For the year ended December 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities primarily related to purchases of short-term 
investments of $59.6 million, purchases of and prepayments for property and equipment of $11.3 million primarily related 
to our DFI and CV systems, payment for a business acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $1.8 million, partially offset by 
proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $43.8 million. 

For  the  year  ended  December 31,  2022,  cash  provided  by  investing  activities  primarily  related  to  proceeds  from 
maturities and sales of short-term investments of $151.5 million, partially offset by purchases of short-term investments 
of $58.3 million, and purchases of and prepayments for property and equipment of $8.4 million primarily related to our 
DFI systems and CV systems. 

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities 

Net cash used in financing activities was $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to net cash 

used in financing activities of $24.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

For the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $9.5 million in 
cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards and $0.7 million for the repurchase of shares of 
our common stock and, partially offset by $4.3 million of proceeds from our employee stock purchase plan and exercise 
of stock options. 

For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $22.5 million for 
the repurchase of shares of our common stock and $6.5 million in cash payments for taxes related to net share settlement 
of equity awards, partially offset by $4.7 million of proceeds from our employee stock purchase plans and exercise of 
stock options. 

Related Party Transactions 

Refer to Note 13, “Strategic Partnership Agreement with Advantest and Related Party Transactions” of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements (Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report) for a discussion on related party transactions 
between the Company and Advantest. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, investments in special purpose entities or undisclosed borrowings 

or debt. 

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our known contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023 (in thousands): 

Contractual Obligations 
2024 
Operating lease obligations (1) . . . .     $ 
 1,706
    17,557
Purchase obligations (2) . . . . . . . . .    
Total (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     $   19,263

2025 

2026 

2027 

2028 

    Total 

$

$

1,611
7,290
8,901

$

$

1,039
1,097
2,136

$

$

916    $ 
244   
1,160    $ 

 551 
 61 
 612 

$

$

5,823
26,249
32,072

Payments Due by Period 

(1)  Refer to Note 5 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” (Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report) for 

further discussion. 

(2)  Purchase  obligations  consist  of  agreements  to  purchase  goods  and  services  entered  in  the  ordinary  course  of 

business. 

51 

 
 
    
   
   
   
    
 
 
Table of Contents 

(3)  The contractual obligation table above excludes liabilities for uncertain tax positions of $2.6 million, which are 
not practicable to assign to any particular years due to the inherent uncertainty of the tax positions. See Note 9 of 
“Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” (Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report) for further discussion. 

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The following discusses our exposure to market risk related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange 
rates.  We  do  not  currently  own  any  equity  investments,  nor  do  we  expect  to  own  any  in  the  foreseeable  future.  This 
discussion  contains  forward-looking  statements  that  are  subject  to  risks  and  uncertainties.  Actual  results  could  vary 
materially as a result of a number of factors. 

Interest Rate Risk.  As of December 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $135.5 
million. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of cash and highly liquid money market instruments. Short-term investments 
consisted of U.S. Government securities. We would not expect our operating results or cash flows to be affected to any 
significant degree by the effect of a sudden change in market interest on our portfolio. A hypothetical increase in market 
interest rates of 100 basis points from the market rates in effect at December 31, 2023, would cause the fair value of short-
term investments to decrease by an immaterial amount which would not have significantly impacted our financial position 
or results of operations. 

As  of  December 31,  2023,  and  periodically  throughout  the year,  we  have  maintained  cash  balances  in  various 
operating accounts in excess of federally insured limits. We limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution 
by evaluating the creditworthiness of the financial institutions with which we invest and investing through more than one 
financial institution. 

Foreign  Currency  and  Exchange  Risk.  Certain  of  our  receivables  and  payables  for  our  international  offices  are 
denominated in the local currency, including the Euro, Yen and RMB. Therefore, a portion of our revenues and operating 
expenditures are subject to foreign currency risks. From time to time, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to 
reduce the exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary 
assets and liabilities. We do not use foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. We record 
these forward contracts at fair value. The counterparty to these foreign currency forward contracts is a financial institution 
that we believe is creditworthy, and therefore, we believe the credit risk of counterparty non-performance is not significant. 
The change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and 
offsets the change in fair value of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in 
other income (expense), net. As of December 31, 2023, we had no outstanding forward contracts. 

52 

 
 
Table of Contents 

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
PDF Solutions, Inc. 

Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of PDF Solutions, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and its 
subsidiaries  (the  “Company”)  as  of  December 31,  2023  and  2022,  and  the  related  consolidated  statements  of 
comprehensive  income  (loss),  stockholders’  equity,  and  cash  flows  for  each  of  the  three  years  in  the  period  ended 
December 31,  2023,  and  the  related  notes  (collectively  referred  to  as  the  “consolidated  financial  statements”).  In  our 
opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company 
as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the 
period  ended December 31, 2023,  in  conformity  with  accounting  principles generally accepted  in  the  United  States of 
America. 

We  also  have  audited,  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United 
States) (“PCAOB”), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of 
the Treadway Commission, and our report dated February 27, 2024, expressed an unqualified opinion. 

Basis for Opinion 

These  consolidated  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Company’s  management.  Our  responsibility  is  to 
express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting 
firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the 
U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the 
PCAOB. 

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  PCAOB.  Those  standards  require  that  we  plan  and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material 
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material 
misstatement  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  whether  due  to  error  or  fraud,  and  performing  procedures  that 
respond  to  those  risks.  Such  procedures  included  examining,  on  a  test  basis,  evidence  regarding  the  amounts  and 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial 
statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

Critical Audit Matter 

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial 
statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts 
or  disclosures  that  are  material  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and  (2) involved  our  especially  challenging, 
subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on 
the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, 
providing separate opinions on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. 

Revenue Recognition 

As  described  in  Note  2  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  the  Company  derives  revenue  from  Analytics  and 
Integrated Yield Ramp. Contracts with customers can include various combinations of licenses, subscriptions, products 
and services, some of which are distinct and are accounted for as separate performance obligations. Significant judgment 

53 

 
Table of Contents 

is exercised by the Company in determining revenue recognition for customer agreements, including determining whether 
licenses, subscriptions, and services are distinct performance obligations, determining the standalone selling price (“SSP”) 
attributed to each performance obligation, establishing the pattern of delivery for each distinct performance obligation, 
and estimating variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. In addition, for revenue under 
project-based contracts for fixed-price services, revenue is recognized as services are performed using a percentage-of-
completion (“POC”) method based on costs or labor-hours input method. 

Estimated  costs  to  complete  each  contract  are  based  on  i) future  labor  and  product  costs  and  ii) expected  productivity 
efficiencies. Changes in these estimates can have a material effect on revenue recognized and/or related costs. Finally, the 
Company recognizes Gainshare royalty revenue in the same period in which the usage occurs. The Company accrues the 
related revenue based on estimates of customers’ underlying sales achievements. These estimates are based on historical 
data, trends, seasonality, changes in contract rate, knowledge of changes in the industry and changes in the customer’s 
manufacturing environment learned through discussions with customers and sales personnel. 

The principal audit considerations for our determination that performing procedures related to the Company’s revenue 
recognition  for  customer  agreements  is  a  critical  audit  matter  are  the  significant  amount  of  judgment  required  by 
management in this process. Significant judgment is required in determining SSP as the Company rarely licenses software 
on a standalone basis, so the Company is required to estimate the range of SSPs for each performance obligation, which 
in  turn  leads  to  significant  auditor  judgment,  subjectivity  and  effort  in  performing  audit  procedures  in  assessing  the 
allocation  of  SSPs  to  performance  obligations.  In  addition,  significant  judgment  is  required  in  determining  the  total 
estimated contract costs for fixed-price contracts, which in turn leads to significant auditor judgment, subjectivity, and 
effort  in  performing  audit  procedures  and  in  evaluating  audit  evidence  relating  to  the  total  estimated  contract  costs. 
Significant judgment is also required in recording Gainshare royalty revenue in the same period in which the usage occurs. 
The Company generally does not receive acknowledgment reports from customers during a given quarter, so the Company 
is required to accrue the related revenue based on estimates of customers underlying sales achievement, which in turn 
leads to significant auditor judgment, subjectivity, and effort in evaluating the reasonableness of these estimates based on 
historical data, trends, seasonality and other factors. 

Addressing  the  matter  involved  performing  procedures  and  evaluating  audit  evidence  in  connection  with  forming  our 
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of internal 
controls relating to the revenue recognition process, including internal controls related to (1) the identification of distinct 
performance  obligations  and  data  used  to  establish  SSP  for  licenses,  subscriptions,  products  and  services,  (2) project 
estimates  to  completion  for  fixed  fee  arrangements  accounted  for  under  POC  and  (3) estimates  of  Gainshare  royalty 
revenue  accrual  and  subsequent  true-ups.  These  procedures  also  included,  among  others,  evaluating  management’s 
significant  accounting  policies  related  to  these  customer  agreements  for  reasonableness.  In  addition,  for  a  sample  of 
customer agreements, we obtained and read contract source documents, including master agreements and other documents 
that were part of the agreement, tested management’s identification of significant terms for completeness, including the 
identification  of  distinct  performance  obligations  and  variable  consideration,  assessed  the  terms  in  the  customer 
agreements and evaluated the appropriateness of management’s application of their accounting policies, along with their 
use  of  estimates,  in  the  determination  of  revenue  recognition  conclusions,  and  tested  the  mathematical  accuracy  of 
management’s  calculations  of  revenue  and  the  associated  timing  of  revenue  recognized  in  the  consolidated  financial 
statements. In addition, we evaluated the reasonableness of management’s estimates of SSP for projects and services that 
are  not  sold  separately,  where  applicable,  costs  to  complete  for  project-based  contracts  for  fixed-price  services  and 
customers’ underlying achievements for royalty revenue. 

/s/ BPM LLP 

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2018. 

San Jose, California 
February 27, 2024 

54 

 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
PDF Solutions, Inc. 

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

We  have  audited  the  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  of  PDF  Solutions,  Inc.  (a  Delaware  corporation)  and  its 
subsidiaries  (the  “Company)  as  of  December 31,  2023,  based  on  criteria  established  in  Internal  Control—Integrated 
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). In our 
opinion,  the  Company  maintained,  in  all  material  respects,  effective  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of 
December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO. 

We  also  have  audited,  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  (United 
States)  (“PCAOB”),  the  consolidated  balance  sheets  as  of  December 31,  2023  and  2022  and  the  related  consolidated 
statements of comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period 
ended December 31, 2023 and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”) of the 
Company,  and  our  report  dated  February 27,  2024  expressed  an  unqualified  opinion  on  those  consolidated  financial 
statements. 

Basis for Opinion 

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s 
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the entity’s internal 
control  over  financial  reporting  based  on  our  audit.  We  are  a  public  accounting  firm  registered  with  PCAOB  and  are 
required  to  be  independent  with  respect  to  the  Company  in  accordance  with  the  U.S.  federal  securities  laws  and  the 
applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained 
in  all  material  respects.  Our  audit  of  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  included  obtaining  an  understanding  of 
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the 
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such 
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis 
for our opinion. 

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

An entity’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability  of  financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  for  external  purposes  in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. An entity’s internal control 
over  financial  reporting  includes  those  policies  and  procedures  that  (1) pertain  to  the  maintenance  of  records  that,  in 
reasonable  detail,  accurately  and  fairly  reflect  the  transactions  and  dispositions  of  the  assets  of  the  entity;  (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements 
in  accordance  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in  the  United  States  of  America,  and  that  receipts  and 
expenditures  of  the  entity  are  being  made  only  in  accordance  with  authorizations  of  management  and  directors  of  the 
entity; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the entity’s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. 

55 

 
 
Table of Contents 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

/s/ BPM LLP 

San Jose, California 
February 27, 2024 

56 

 
 
 
Table of Contents 

PDF SOLUTIONS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(in thousands, except par values) 

December 31, 

2023 

2022 

Current assets: 

ASSETS 

Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $ 
Short-term investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for credit losses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Prepaid expenses and other current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Total current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Property and equipment, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Operating lease right-of-use assets, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Goodwill  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Intangible assets, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Deferred tax assets, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Other non-current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   

 98,978   $ 119,624
19,557
 36,544  
42,164
 44,904  
12,063
 17,422  
193,408
    197,848  
40,174
 37,338  
6,002
 4,926  
14,123
 15,029  
18,055
 15,620  
64
 157  
6,845
 19,218  
Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $   290,136   $ 278,671

Current liabilities: 

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

Accounts payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $ 
Accrued compensation and related benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Accrued and other current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Operating lease liabilities – current portion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Deferred revenues – current portion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Billings in excess of recognized revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Total current liabilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Long-term income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Non-current portion of operating lease liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Other non-current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Total liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   

 2,561   $
 14,800  
 4,633  
 1,529  
 25,750  
 1,570  
 50,843  
 2,972  
 4,657  
 2,718  
 61,190  

6,388
16,948
5,581
1,412
26,019
1,852
58,200
2,622
5,932
1,905
68,659

Commitments and contingencies (Note 6) 
Stockholders’ equity: 
Preferred stock, $0.00015 par value, 5,000 shares authorized, no shares issued and 
outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Common stock, $0.00015 par value, 70,000 shares authorized; shares issued 49,749 
and 48,613, respectively; shares outstanding 38,289 and 37,431, respectively . . . . . . . . . . . .   
6
447,415
Additional paid-in capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
(133,709)
Treasury stock at cost, 11,460 and 11,182 shares, respectively. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Accumulated deficit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
(101,150)
(2,550)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Total stockholders’ equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
210,012
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $   290,136   $ 278,671

 6  
    473,295  
    (143,923) 
 (98,045) 
 (2,387) 
    228,946  

 —  

—

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

57 

 
 
 
 
     
    
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

PDF SOLUTIONS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
(in thousands, except per share amounts) 

Year Ended December 31, 
2022 

2021 

2023 

Revenues: 
Analytics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Integrated Yield Ramp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 152,085   $  130,480
 18,069
   148,549

13,750  
165,835  

$ 93,415
17,645
111,060

Costs and Expenses: 
Costs of revenues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Research and development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Selling, general, and administrative . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amortization of acquired intangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Write-down in value of property and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interest and other expense (income), net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Income (loss) before income tax expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Income tax expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net income (loss) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Other comprehensive income (loss): 

Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change in unrealized gain (loss) related to available-for-sale debt 
securities,net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total other comprehensive income (loss) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Comprehensive income (loss)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Net income (loss) per share: 
Basic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diluted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

44,193
 47,907
51,749  
43,780
 56,126
50,736  
37,649
 45,338
62,216  
1,255
 1,270
1,285  
3,183
 —
—  
(683)
 (2,562)
(5,020) 
(18,317)
 470
4,869  
(1,764) 
(3,171)
 (3,899)
3,105   $   (3,429) $ (21,488)

148  

 (1,493)

(825)

15  
163  

(14)
 7
(839)
 (1,486)
3,268   $   (4,915) $ (22,327)

0.08   $ 
0.08   $ 

 (0.09) $
 (0.09) $

(0.58)
(0.58)

$

$

$
$

Weighted average common shares used to calculate net income (loss) per share:
Basic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diluted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

38,015  
38,937  

 37,309
 37,309

37,138
37,138

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

58 

 
 
 
   
    
   
      
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

PDF SOLUTIONS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
(in thousands) 

  Accumulated 

Common Stock 

Additional
Paid-In 
     Shares      Amount    Capital 
407,173
—

 36,850   $ 
 (251) 

 6
 —

Treasury Stock 

   Shares    Amount 

9,550
251

$ (96,215) $
(4,523)

Other 
Accumulated   Comprehensive Stockholders’
Loss 

Total 

Deficit 
(76,233)   $ 
—   

 (225) $
 —

Equity 
234,506
(4,523)

—

—
—

—

—
—

—   

—   
—   

 —

 —
 —

1,035

1,930
—

 —

1,035

1,930
—

 —  

 109  

 187  

 216  
 487  

 —  
 —  
 37,411  
 (933) 

Balances, January 1, 2021 . . . . .   
Repurchase of common stock . . .   
Issuance of common stock in 
connection with employee 
stock purchase plan . . . . . . . . . . .   
Issuance of common stock in 
connection with exercise of 
options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Vesting of restricted stock units  .   
Purchases of treasury stock 
in connection with tax 
withholdings on vesting of 
restricted stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Stock-based compensation 
expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . .   
Balances, December 31, 2021 . .   
Repurchase of common stock . . .    
Issuance of common stock in 
connection with employee 
stock purchase plan . . . . . . . . . . .   
Issuance of common stock in 
connection with exercise of 
options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Vesting of restricted stock units  .    
Purchases of treasury stock 
in connection with tax 
withholdings on vesting of 
restricted stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Stock-based compensation 
expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
 —  
 —  
Comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . .    
Balances, December 31, 2022 . .      37,431  
Repurchase of common stock . . .   
 (21) 
Issuance of common stock in 
connection with employee 
 stock purchase plan  . . . . . . . . . .    
Issuance of common stock in 
connection with exercise of 
options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Vesting of restricted stock units  .    
Purchases of treasury stock 
in connection with tax 
withholdings on vesting of 
restricted stock  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Stock-based compensation 
expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Comprehensive income . . . . . . . .    
Balances, December 31, 2023 . .      38,289   $ 

 30  
 625  

 150  
 616  

 —  
 —  

 224  

 —  

 —  

 —
 —

 —

 —
 —
 6
 —

 —
 —

 —

 —
 —
 6
 —

 —
 —

 —

 —
 —
 6

—

202

(3,967)

—   

 —

(3,967)

12,931
—
423,069
—

—
—
10,003
933

—
—
(104,705)
(22,471)

—   
(21,488)  
(97,721)  
—  

 —
 (839)
 (1,064)
 —

12,931
(22,327)
219,585
(22,471)

 —

3,011

1,686
—

—

—
—

—

—
—

—  

—  
—  

 —

 —
 —

3,011

1,686
—

—

246

(6,533)

—  

 —

(6,533)

19,649
—
447,415
—

—
—
11,182
21

—
—
(133,709)
(743)

—  
(3,429)  
(101,150)  
—  

 —
 (1,486)
 (2,550)
 —

19,649
(4,915)
210,012
(743)

 —

3,832

492

—

—
—

—

—
—

—  

—  
—  

 —

 —
 —

3,832

492
—

—

257

(9,471)

—  

 —

(9,471)

21,556
—
$ 473,295

—
—
11,460

—
—

$ (143,923) $

—  
3,105  
(98,045)   $ 

 —
 163
 (2,387) $

21,556
3,268
228,946

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

PDF SOLUTIONS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(in thousands) 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2021 

2023 

Cash flows from operating activities: 
Net income (loss)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by 
operating activities: 

Depreciation and amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stock-based compensation expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amortization of acquired intangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amortization of costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net accretion of discounts on short-term investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Write-down in value of property and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deferred taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Changes in operating assets and liabilities: 

Accounts receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prepaid expenses and other current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operating lease right-of-use assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other non-current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accounts payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accrued compensation and related benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accrued and other liabilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deferred revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Billings in excess of recognized revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operating lease liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net cash provided by operating activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Cash flows from investing activities: 

Proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchases of short-term investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchases of property and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prepayment for the purchase of property and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchases of intangible assets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payment for business acquisition, net of cash acquired . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

3,105   $ 

 (3,429)  $ (21,488)

4,986  
21,484  
3,551  
2,142  
(1,174) 
—  
(108) 
(198) 

(2,748) 
(7,329) 
1,205  
(4,166) 
(2,145) 
(2,188) 
110  
(358) 
(282) 
(1,287) 
14,600  

 5,526  
 19,649  
 3,484  
 1,550  
 (187) 
 —  
 (4) 
 —  

 (2,143) 
 (5,787) 
 1,821  
 2,258  
 (1,423) 
 7,720  
 1,671  
 1,822  
 1,852  
 (2,082) 
 32,298  

6,218
12,931
3,334
674
(14)
3,183
1,373
161

(5,980)
1,136
1,414
(1,336)
(86)
1,264
(648)
5,028
(1,337)
(1,584)
4,243

43,800  
(59,598) 
105  
(11,236) 
(89) 
(150) 
(1,823) 
(28,991) 

    151,500  
 (58,321) 
 —  
 (8,409) 
 (21) 
 (150) 
 —  
 84,599  

171,000
(168,560)
—
(3,672)
(381)
—
(3,054)
(4,667)

Cash flows from financing activities: 

Proceeds from exercise of stock options . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Proceeds from employee stock purchase plans. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards . . . . . . . .
Repurchases of common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net cash used in financing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

492  
3,832  
(9,471) 
(743) 
(5,890) 

 1,686  
 3,011  
 (6,533) 
    (22,471) 
    (24,307) 

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net change in cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

(365) 
(20,646) 
119,624  

 (650) 
 91,940  
 27,684  

$ 98,978   $  119,624   $

1,930
1,035
(3,967)
(4,523)
(5,525)

(182)
(6,131)
33,815
27,684

Continued on next page. 

60 

 
 
   
    
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
Table of Contents 

PDF SOLUTIONS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS – CONTINUED  
(in thousands) 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2023 

2021 

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: 
Cash paid during the year for taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease 
liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Supplemental disclosure of noncash information: 
Property and equipment received and accrued in accounts payable and 
accrued and other liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Advances for purchase of fixed assets transferred from prepaid assets to 
property and equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operating lease liabilities arising from obtaining right-of-use assets . . . . . . . . .
Property and equipment transferred to sales-type leases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

$

$
$
$

3,783   $ 

 2,850 

1,648   $ 

 1,744 

1,599   $ 

 3,201 

66   $ 
131   $ 
8,076   $ 

 336 
 2,502 
 — 

$

$

$

$
$
$

1,873

1,947

1,359

963
161
—

See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

61 

 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

PDF SOLUTIONS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Description of Business 

PDF Solutions, Inc. (the “Company” or “PDF”), provides products and services designed to empower organizations 
across the semiconductor and electronics ecosystem to connect, collect, manage, and analyze data about design, equipment, 
manufacturing,  and  test  to  improve  the yield  and quality of  their products  and  operational  efficiency.  The  Company’s 
products, services, and solutions include proprietary software, physical intellectual property (“IP”) for integrated circuit 
(“IC”) designs, electrical measurement hardware tools, proven methodologies, and professional services. 

Basis of Presentation 

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after 

the elimination of all significant intercompany balances and transactions. 

Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United 
States (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates in these financial statements include 
revenue  recognition,  the  estimated  useful  lives  of  property  and  equipment  and  intangible  assets,  assumptions  made  in 
analysis of allowance for credit losses, fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, 
impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets, valuation for deferred tax assets, and accounting for lease obligations, stock-
based  compensation  expense,  and  income  tax  uncertainties  and  contingencies.  Actual  results  could  differ  from  those 
estimates and may result in material effects on the Company’s operating results and financial position. 

Concentration of Credit Risk 

Financial instruments that potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash 
and  cash  equivalents,  short-term  investments,  and  accounts  receivable.  As  of  December 31,  2023,  and  periodically 
throughout the year, the Company had cash balances in various operating accounts in excess of federally insured limits. 
The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments with what it considers high credit quality 
financial institutions. 

The Company primarily sells its products and services to companies in Asia, Europe, and North America within the 
semiconductor industry. As of December 31, 2023, two customers accounted for 50% of the Company’s gross accounts 
receivable and one customer accounted for 35% of the Company’s total revenues for 2023. As of December 31, 2022, 
three customers accounted for 53% of the Company’s gross accounts receivable and two customers accounted for 41% of 
the Company’s revenues for 2022. Two customers accounted for 27% of the Company’s revenues for 2021. See Note 11 
for further details. The Company does not require collateral or other security to support accounts receivable. To reduce 
credit risk, management performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition. The Company maintains 
allowances for potential credit losses. 

The allowance for credit losses, which was based on management’s best estimates, could be adjusted in the near term 
from current estimates depending on actual experience. Such adjustments could be material to the consolidated financial 
statements. 

62 

 
Table of Contents 

Supplier Concentration 

Some  of  the  Company’s  vendors  provide  highly  specialized,  differentiated  products  and  services  related  to  the 
Company’s eProbe system and some licensors provide key enabling software for the Company’s products and services. In 
the event any of these suppliers delay or discontinue providing such products and services to the Company, it may be 
difficult for the Company to replace such suppliers, software, or parts in a timely manner or at all, which could delay or 
make impossible the Company’s ability to deliver or adequately support its software systems or to complete and deliver 
its eProbe systems to its customers, and could negatively impact the Company’s future financial results of operations. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents, and Short-term Investments 

The  Company  considers  all  highly  liquid  investments  with  effective  maturities  of  90 days  or  less  on  the  date  of 
purchase to be cash equivalents and investments with effective maturities greater than 90 days but less than one year to be 
short-term investments. The Company classifies its securities with readily determinable market values as “available-for-
sale”.  Short-term  investments  include  available-for-sale  securities  and  are  carried  at  estimated  fair  value,  with  the 
unrealized  gains  and  unrealized  non-credit-related  losses,  net  of  tax,  reported  as  a  component  of  accumulated  other 
comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity. Unrealized credit-related losses are recorded to interest and other 
expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) with a corresponding allowance 
for  credit-related  losses  in  the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  Realized  gains  and  losses  are  based  on  the  specific 
identification method and are included as a component of interest and other expense (income), net in the Consolidated 
Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 

The  Company  periodically  reviews  short-term  investments  for  impairment.  For  investments  in  unrealized  loss 
positions, the Company assesses whether any portion of the decline in fair value below the amortized cost basis is due to 
credit-related factors if the Company neither intends to sell nor anticipates that it is more likely than not that it will be 
required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. The Company considers factors such as the extent to which 
the market value has been less than the amortized cost basis, any noted failure of the issuer to make scheduled interest or 
principal payments, changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency and other relevant credit-related factors in 
determining whether or not a credit loss exists. There was no allowance for credit-related losses on any of the Company’s 
investments recognized in the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. 

As of December 31, 2023, and 2022, short-term investments consisted solely of U.S. Government securities. The cost 
of these securities approximated fair value and there was no material gross realized or unrealized gains or losses as of 
December 31, 2023 and 2022. Refer to Note 12, “Fair Value Measurements” for further discussion on the Company’s 
investments. 

The Company recorded interest income from its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $5.5 million, 

$1.5 million and $0.1 million in the years ended December 31 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 

Accounts Receivable 

Accounts  receivable  include  amounts  that  are  unbilled  at  the  end  of  the  period  that  are  expected  to  be  billed  and 
collected within a 12 - month period. Unbilled accounts receivable are determined on an individual contract basis. Unbilled 
accounts receivable, included in accounts receivable, totaled $16.4 million and $13.5 million as of December 31, 2023 and 
2022, respectively. Unbilled accounts receivable that are not expected to be billed and collected during the succeeding 
12 - month period are recorded in other non-current assets and totaled $1.1 million and $0.8 million as of December 31, 
2023 and 2022, respectively.  

The  Company  performs  ongoing  credit  evaluations  of  its  customers’  financial  condition.  An  allowance  for  credit 
losses is maintained for probable credit losses based upon the Company’s assessment of the expected collectibility of the 
accounts  receivable.  The  allowance  for  credit  losses  is  reviewed  on  a  quarterly  basis  to  assess  the  adequacy  of  the 
allowance. 

63 

 
Table of Contents 

The changes in allowance for credit losses are summarized below (in thousands): 

Balance at 
Beginning 
of Period 

2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   

$ 
$ 
$ 

890
890
963

Charged to 
     Expense (1) 
$
20
11
$
— $

$
$
$

Deductions/ 
Write-offs 
of Accounts 
Receivable 

Balance at 
End of 
Period 

 (20) 
 (11) 
 (73) 

$ 
$ 
$ 

890
890
890

(1)  Additions to the accounts receivable reserve for credit losses are charged to bad debt expense. 

Property and Equipment 

Property and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful 

lives (in years) of the related asset as follows: 

Computer equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture, fixtures, and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Laboratory and test equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leasehold improvements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3 
3 
5 - 10 
3 - 10 
Shorter of estimated useful life or term of lease

Intangible Assets 

Intangible assets consist of acquired technology, certain contract rights, customer relationships, patents, trademarks 
and trade names. These intangible assets may be acquired through business combinations or direct purchases. Intangible 
assets  are  amortized  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  their  estimated  useful  lives  which  range  from one to ten years.  The 
Company continually monitors events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived 
assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in 
circumstances occur, the Company assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets. Recoverability of an asset group is 
measured by comparison of its carrying amount to the expected future undiscounted cash flows that the asset group is 
expected to generate. If it is determined that an asset group is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded in the amount 
by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. 

Goodwill 

The Company records goodwill when the purchase consideration of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net 
tangible and identified intangible assets as of the date of acquisition. The Company has one operating segment and one 
operating unit. The Company performs a qualitative analysis when testing a reporting unit’s goodwill for impairment. The 
Company performs an annual impairment assessment of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or more 
frequently, if required to determine if any events or circumstances exist, such as an adverse change in business climate or 
a decline in the overall industry demand, that would indicate that it would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a 
reporting unit below its carrying amount, including goodwill. If events or circumstances do not indicate that the fair value 
of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is 
required. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized equal to the amount of 
excess, limited to the amount of total goodwill. 

Leases 

The Company has operating leases for administrative and sales offices, research and development laboratory and clean 
room.  The  Company  recognizes  long-term  operating  lease  rights  and  commitments  as  operating  lease  right-of-use 

64 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
     
 
   
Table of Contents 

(“ROU”) assets, operating lease liabilities and operating lease liabilities,  non-current, respectively, in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. The Company elected to not separate lease and non-lease components for all of its leases. 

The Company determines if an arrangement is, or contains, a lease at inception. Operating lease ROU assets, and 
operating lease liabilities are initially recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Lease 
terms include the minimum unconditional term of the lease, and may include options to extend or terminate the lease when 
it is reasonably certain at the commencement date that such options will be exercised. The decision to include these options 
involves consideration of the Company’s overall future business plans and other relevant business economic factors that 
may affect its business. Since the determination of the lease term requires an application of judgment, lease terms that 
differ  in  reality  from  the  Company’s  initial  judgment  may  potentially  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company’s 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate. In determining the present 
value  of  the  Company’s  expected  lease  payments,  the  discount  rate  is  calculated  using  the  Company’s  incremental 
borrowing rate determined based on the information available, which requires additional judgment. 

Software Development Costs 

Internally developed software is software developed to meet the Company’s internal needs to provide certain services 
to the customers. The Company’s capitalized software development costs consist of internal compensation related costs 
and  external  direct  costs  incurred  during  the  application  development  stage  and  are  amortized  over  their  useful  lives, 
generally five to six years.  

The costs to develop software that is marketed externally consisting of external direct costs and internal compensation 
related costs are capitalized once technological feasibility of the software product has been established. Costs incurred 
prior to establishing technological feasibility are expensed as incurred. Technological feasibility is established when the 
Company  has  completed  all  planning,  designing,  coding,  and  testing  activities  that  are  necessary  to  establish  that  the 
software product can be produced to meet its design specifications. Capitalization of such costs ceases when the software 
product  is  generally  available  to  customers.  These  software  development  costs  are  amortized  using  the  greater  of  the 
straight-line method or the usage method over its estimated useful life. 

Cost of Revenues 

Costs of revenues consist primarily of costs incurred to provide and support the Company’s services, costs recognized 
in connection with licensing its software, IT and facilities-related costs and amortization of acquired technology. Service 
costs include material costs, hardware costs (including cost of leased assets under sales-type leases), personnel-related 
costs (including compensation, employee benefits, bonus and stock-based compensation expense), subcontractor costs, 
overhead costs, travel, and allocated facilities-related costs. Software license costs consist of costs associated with cloud-
delivery related expenses and licensing third-party software used by the Company in providing services to its customers 
in solution engagements or sold in conjunction with the Company’s software products. 

Research and Development Expenses 

Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs (including compensation, employee 
benefits, bonus and stock-based compensation expense), outside development services, travel, third-party cloud-services 
related  costs,  IT  and  facilities  cost  allocations  to  support  product  development  activities.  Research  and  development 
expenses are charged to operations as incurred. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs (including compensation, 
employee  benefits,  bonus,  commission  and  stock-based  compensation  expense  for  sales,  marketing  and  general  and 
administrative  personnel),  legal,  tax  and  accounting  services,  marketing  communications  and  trade  conference-related 
expenses, third-party cloud-services related costs, travel, IT and facilities cost allocations. 

65 

Table of Contents 

Stock-Based Compensation 

The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using the fair value method, which requires the Company to 
measure  stock-based  compensation  based  on  the  grant-date  fair  value  of  the  awards  and  recognize  the  compensation 
expense over the requisite service period. As stock-based compensation expense recognized is based on awards ultimately 
expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if 
necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. 

The  fair  value  of  the  Company’s  restricted  stock  units  (“RSUs”)  is  equal  to  the  market  value  of  the  Company’s 
common stock on the date of the grant. These awards are subject to time-based vesting which generally occurs over a 
period of four years. 

The fair value of the Company’s stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, 
which incorporates various assumptions including volatility, expected life and interest rates. The expected volatility is 
based on the historical volatility of the Company’s common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the 
estimated expected life of the Company’s stock options. The expected life is based on historical experience and on the 
terms and conditions of the stock options granted. The interest rate assumption is based upon observed Treasury yield 
curve rates appropriate for the expected life of the Company’s stock options. 

Income Taxes 

The Company’s provision for income tax comprises its current tax liability and change in deferred tax assets and 
liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The measurement of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based 
on provisions of enacted tax laws; the effect of future changes in tax laws or rates are not anticipated. Valuation allowances 
are  provided  to  reduce deferred  tax  assets  to  an  amount  that  in  management’s  judgment  is  more  likely  than  not  to  be 
recoverable against future taxable income. No U.S. taxes are provided on earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent 
such earnings are deemed to be permanently invested. The Company’s income tax calculations are based on application 
of applicable U.S. federal and state or foreign tax laws. The Company’s tax filings, however, are subject to audit by the 
respective tax authorities. Accordingly, the Company recognizes tax liabilities based upon its estimate of whether, and the 
extent to which, additional taxes will be due when such estimates are more likely than not to be sustained. An uncertain 
income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. To the extent the final 
tax liabilities are different from the amounts originally accrued, the increases or decreases are recorded as income tax 
expense or benefit in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 

Net Income (Loss) Per Share 

Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by weighted average number of common 
shares  outstanding  for  the  period  (excluding  outstanding  stock  options  and  shares  subject  to  repurchase).  Diluted  net 
income (loss) per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period plus 
the potential effect of dilutive securities which are convertible into common shares (using the treasury stock method), 
except  in  cases  in  which  the  effect  would  be  anti-dilutive.  Dilutive  potential  common  shares  consist  of  incremental 
common shares issuable upon exercise of stock options, upon vesting of RSUs, contingently issuable shares for all periods 
and assumed issuance of shares under the Company’s employee stock purchase plan. No dilutive potential common shares 
are included in the computation of any diluted per share amount when a loss from continuing operations was reported by 
the Company. 

Foreign Currency Translation 

The functional currency of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries is the local currency for the respective subsidiary. The 
assets and liabilities are translated at the period-end exchange rate, and statements of comprehensive income (loss) are 
translated at the average exchange rate during the year. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translations are 
included  as  a  component  of  other  comprehensive  income  (loss).  Gains  and  losses  resulting  from  foreign  currency 
transactions are included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 

66 

Table of Contents 

Derivative Financial Instruments 

The Company operates internationally and is exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange 
rates. From time to time, the Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce the exposure to foreign 
currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The Company 
does not use foreign currency contracts for speculative or trading purposes. The Company records these forward contracts 
at  fair  value.  The  counterparty  to  these  foreign  currency  forward  contracts  is  a  financial  institution  that  the  Company 
believes is creditworthy, and therefore, we believe the credit risk of counterparty non-performance is not significant. These 
foreign currency forward contracts are not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the change in fair value 
of these derivatives is recorded into earnings as a component of interest and other income (expense), net and offsets the 
change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which are also recorded in interest 
and other income (expense), net. The duration of these forward contracts is usually three months.  

Business Combinations 

The Company allocates the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed 
and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values at the date of the business combination. The excess of 
the  fair  value  of  purchase  consideration  over  the  fair  values  of  these  identifiable  assets  and  liabilities  is  recorded  as 
goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to 
intangible  assets.  Significant  estimates  in  valuing  certain  intangible  assets  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  estimated 
replacement costs and future expected cash flows from acquired customers, acquired technology, acquired patents, and 
trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives and discount rates. Management’s estimates of fair value 
are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a 
result, actual results may differ from estimates. Allocation of purchase consideration to identifiable assets and liabilities 
affects the Company’s amortization expense, as acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their useful life, 
whereas  any  indefinite  lived  intangible  assets,  including  in-process  research  and  development,  and  goodwill,  are  not 
amortized but tested annually for impairment. During the measurement period, which is not to exceed one year from the 
acquisition date, the Company records adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding 
offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. 

Litigation 

From time to time, the Company is subject to various claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course 
of business. The Company accrues for losses related to litigation when a potential loss is probable and the loss can be 
reasonably  estimated  in  accordance  with  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  (“FASB”)  requirements.  See  Note  6, 
“Commitments and Contingencies”. 

Accounting Standards Adopted 

In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016 - 13, Financial Instruments – Credit 
Losses  (Topic  326):  Measurement  of  Credit  Losses  on  Financial  Instruments  (“ASU  No. 2016 - 13”),  which  requires 
measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on internal 
information, external information, or a combination of both relating to past events, current conditions, and reasonable and 
supportable forecasts. ASU No. 2016 - 13 replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with a forward-looking 
expected credit loss model, which will result in earlier recognition of credit losses. Subsequent to the issuance of ASU 
No. 2016 - 13,  the  FASB  issued  ASU  No. 2018 - 19,  Codification  Improvements  to  Topic  326,  Financial  Instruments – 
Credit Losses, ASU No. 2019 - 04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, Topic 
815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instrument, ASU No. 2019 - 05, Financial Instruments – Credit 
Losses (Topic 326) Targeted Transition Relief, ASU No. 2016 - 13, ASU No. 2019 - 10 Financial Instruments-Credit Losses 
(Topic  326),  Derivatives  and  Hedging  (Topic  815),  and  Leases  (Topic  842),  and  ASU  No. 2019 - 11  Codification 
Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses. The subsequent ASUs do not change the core principle 
of the guidance in ASU No. 2016 - 13. Instead, these amendments are intended to clarify and improve operability of certain 
topics included within ASU No. 2016 - 13. 

67 

Table of Contents 

The Company adopted this standard on January 1, 2023, using a modified retrospective approach, which requires a 
cumulative-effect adjustment to accumulated deficit as of the beginning of the period of adoption with prior periods not 
restated.  The  adoption  of  ASU  No. 2016 - 13  did  not  have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company’s  consolidated  financial 
statements. 

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

In  November 2023,  the  FASB  issued  ASU  No. 2023 - 07,  Segment  Reporting  (Topic  280):  Improvements  to 
Reportable Segment Disclosures, which requires disclosure of incremental segment information on an annual and interim 
basis. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods within fiscal years 
beginning after December 15, 2024, and requires retrospective application to all prior periods presented in the financial 
statements.  Early  adoption  is  permitted.  The  Company  is  currently  evaluating  the  impact  of  the  new  standard  on  the 
consolidated financial statements. 

In  December 2023,  the  FASB  issued  ASU  2023 - 09,  Income  Taxes  (Topic  740):  Improvements  to  Income  Tax 
Disclosures.  This  ASU  is  intended  to  improve  the  transparency  of  income  tax  disclosures  by  requiring  (1) consistent 
categories and greater disaggregation of information in the rate reconciliation and (2) income taxes paid disaggregated by 
jurisdiction. It also includes certain other amendments to improve the effectiveness of income tax disclosures. The ASU’s 
amendments are effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. Entities are 
permitted to early adopt the standard for “annual financial statements that have not yet been issued or made available for 
issuance.” Adoption is either prospectively or retrospectively, the Company will adopt this ASU on a prospective basis. 
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the new standard on the consolidated financial statements and related 
disclosures. 

Management has reviewed other recently issued accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB and 
does  not  believe  any  of  these accounting  pronouncements  has  had  or  will  have  a  material  impact  on  the  consolidated 
financial statements. 

2. REVENUE 

The Company derives revenue from two sources: Analytics revenue and Integrated Yield Ramp revenue. 

The  Company  recognizes  revenue  in  accordance  with  FASB Accounting  Standard  Codification  (“ASC”)  Topic 
606, Revenue  from  Contracts  with  Customers,  and  its  related  amendments  (collectively  known  as  “ASC  606”). ASC 
606 outlines  a  single  comprehensive  model  to  use  in  accounting  for  revenue  arising  from  contracts  with  customers. 
Revenue is recognized when control of products or services is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the 
consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those promised products or services. 

The Company determines revenue recognition through the following five steps: 

Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer 
Identification of the performance obligations in the contract 

• 
• 
•  Determination of the transaction price 
•  Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 
•  Recognition of revenue when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied 

The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties 
are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is 
probable. 

68 

Table of Contents 

Contracts with multiple performance obligations 

The Company enters into contracts that can include various combinations of licenses, products and services, some of 
which are distinct and are accounted for as separate performance obligations. For contracts with multiple performance 
obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis 
using the standalone selling price (“SSP”). 

Analytics Revenue 

Analytics  revenue  is  derived  from  the  following  primary  offerings:  licenses  and  services  for  standalone  software 
(which is primarily Exensio® and Cimetrix® products), SaaS (which is primarily Exensio products), and DFI™ systems 
and CV® systems (including Characterization services) that do not include performance incentives based on customers’ 
yield achievement. 

Revenue  from  standalone  software  is  recognized  depending  on  whether  the  license  is  perpetual  or  time-based. 
Perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the time of the inception of the arrangement when control 
transfers to the customers, if the software license is considered as a separate performance obligation from the services 
offered by the Company. Revenue from post-contract support is recognized over the contract term on a straight-line basis, 
because  we  are providing  (i) support  and  (ii) unspecified  software  updates  on  a  when-and-if  available  basis  over  the 
contract term. Revenue from time-based-licensed software is allocated to each performance obligation and is recognized 
either at a point in time or over time as follows. The license component is recognized at the time when control transfers to 
customers,  with  the  post-contract  support  component  recognized  ratably  over  the  committed  term  of  the  contract.  For 
contracts with any combination of licenses, support, and other services, distinct performance obligations are accounted for 
separately. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price of the contract to each 
performance obligation on a relative basis using the SSP attributed to each performance obligation. 

Revenue  from  SaaS  arrangements, which  allow  for  the  use  of  a  cloud-based  software  product  or  service  over  a 
contractually determined period of time without the customer having to take possession of software, is accounted for as a 
subscription and is recognized as revenue ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the subscription period beginning on the 
date the service is first made available to customers. For contracts with any combination of SaaS and related services, 
distinct performance obligations are accounted for separately. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we 
allocate the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP attributed to each 
performance obligation. 

Revenue from DFI systems and CV systems (including Characterization services) that do not include performance 
incentives  based  on  customers’  yield  achievement  is  recognized  primarily  as  services  are  performed.  Where  there  are 
distinct  performance  obligations,  the  Company  allocates  revenue  to  all  deliverables  based  on  their SSPs.  For  those 
contracts  with  multiple  performance  obligations,  the  Company  allocates  the  transaction  price  of  the  contract  to  each 
performance  obligation  on  a  relative  basis  using  SSP  attributed  to  each  performance  obligation. Where  there  are  not 
discrete  performance  obligations,  historically,  revenue  is  primarily  recognized  as  services  are  performed  using 
a percentage of completion method based on costs or labor-hours inputs, whichever is the most appropriate measure of the 
progress towards completion of the contract. The estimation of percentage of completion method is complex and subject 
to  many  variables  that  require  significant  judgement.  Please  refer  to  “Significant  Judgments”  section  of  this  Note for 
further discussion. 

The Company also leases some of its DFI system and CV system assets to some customers. The Company determines 
the existence of a lease when the customer controls the use of these identified assets for a period of time defined in the 
lease agreement and classifies such leases as operating leases or sales-type leases. A lease is classified as a sales-type lease 
if it meets certain criteria under Topic 842, Leases; otherwise it is classified as an operating lease. Operating lease revenue 
is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Sales-type lease revenue and corresponding lease receivables are 
recognized at lease commencement based on the present value of the future lease payments, and related interest income 
on  lease  receivable  is  recognized  over  the  lease  term  and  are  recorded  under  Analytics  Revenue  in  the  Consolidated 
Statements  of  Comprehensive  Income  (Loss).  Payments  under  sales-type  leases  are  discounted  using  the  interest  rate 
implicit  in  the  lease.  When  the  Company’s  leases  are  embedded  in  contracts  with  customers  that  include  non-lease 

69 

Table of Contents 

performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration in the contract between lease and non-lease components 
based  on  their  relative  SSPs.  Assets  subject  to  operating  leases  remain  in  Property  and  equipment  and  continue  to  be 
depreciated. Assets subject to sales-type leases are derecognized from Property and equipment, net at lease commencement 
and a net investment in the lease asset is recognized in Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other non-current 
assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

Integrated Yield Ramp Revenue 

Integrated  Yield  Ramp  revenue  is  derived  from  the  Company’s  fixed-fee  engagements  that  include  performance 
incentives based on customers’ yield achievement (which consists primarily of Gainshare royalties) typically based on 
customer’s wafer shipments, pertaining to these fixed-price contracts, which royalties are variable. 

Revenue under these project–based contracts, which are delivered over a specific period of time, typically for a fixed 
fee component paid on a set schedule, is recognized as services are performed using a percentage of completion method 
based  on  costs  or  labor-inputs,  whichever  is  the  most  appropriate  measure  of  the  progress  towards  completion  of  the 
contract. Where there are distinct performance obligations, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on 
their SSPs and allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation on a relative basis using SSP. 
Similar to the services provided in connection with DFI systems and CV systems that are contributing to Analytics revenue, 
due  to  the  nature  of  the  work  performed  in  these  arrangements,  the  estimation  of percentage  of  completion  method  is 
complex and subject to many variables that require significant judgement. Please refer to “Significant Judgments” section 
of this Note for further discussion. 

The Gainshare royalty contained in Integrated Yield Ramp contracts is a variable fee related to continued usage of the 
Company’s IP after the fixed-fee service period ends, based on a customer’s yield achievement. Revenue derived from 
Gainshare is contingent upon the Company’s customers reaching certain defined production yield levels. Gainshare royalty 
periods are generally subsequent to the delivery of all contractual services and performance obligations. The Company 
records Gainshare as a usage-based royalty derived from customers’ usage of IP and records it in the same period in which 
the usage occurs. 

Disaggregation of Revenue 

The  Company  disaggregates  revenue  from  contracts  with  customers  into  the  timing  of  the  transfer  of  goods  and 
services  and  the  geographical  regions.  The  Company  determined that  disaggregating  revenue  into  these  categories 
achieves the disclosure objective to depict how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are 
affected by economic factors. 

The  Company’s  performance  obligations  are  satisfied  either  over  time  or  at  a  point-in-time.  The  following  table 

represents a disaggregation of revenue by timing of revenue: 

Over time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Point-in-time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2021 

2023 

71 %  
29 %  
100 %  

 69 % 
 31 % 
 100 % 

65 %
35 %
100 %

International  revenues  accounted  for  approximately  44%,  50%  and  55%  of  total  revenues  for  the years  ended 

December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. See Note 11, “Customer and Geographic Information”. 

Significant Judgments 

Judgments and estimates are required under ASC 606. Due to the complexity of certain contracts, the actual revenue 
recognition treatment required under ASC 606 for the Company’s arrangements may be dependent on contract-specific 
terms and may vary in some instances. 

70 

 
 
   
   
 
Table of Contents 

For revenue under project-based contracts for fixed-price implementation services, revenue is recognized as services 
are  performed  using  a percentage-of-completion  method based  on  costs  or  labor-hours  input  method,  whichever  is  the 
most appropriate measure of the progress towards completion of the contract. Due to the nature of the work performed in 
these arrangements, the estimation of percentage of completion method is complex, subject to many variables and requires 
significant judgment. Key factors reviewed by the Company to estimate costs to complete each contract are future labor 
and  product  costs  and  expected  productivity  efficiencies.  If  circumstances  arise  that  change  the  original  estimates  of 
revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result 
in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in revenue on a cumulative catch-
up basis in the period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known. 

The Company’s contracts with customers often include promises to transfer products, licenses software and provide 
services,  including  professional  services,  technical  support  services,  and  rights  to  unspecified  updates  to  a  customer. 
Determining whether licenses and services are distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately, 
or not distinct and thus accounted for together, requires significant judgment. The Company rarely licenses software on a 
standalone basis, so the Company is required to estimate the range of SSPs for each performance obligation. In instances 
where SSP is not directly observable because the Company does not license the software or sell the service separately, the 
Company determines the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. 

The Company is required to record Gainshare royalty revenue in the same period in which the usage occurs. Because 
the Company generally does not receive the acknowledgment reports from its customers during a given quarter within the 
time frame necessary to adequately review the reports and include the actual amounts in quarterly results for such quarter, 
the Company accrues the related revenue based on estimates of customers underlying sales achievement. The Company’s 
estimation  process  can  be  based  on  historical  data,  trends,  seasonality,  changes  in  the  contract  rate,  knowledge  of  the 
changes  in  the  industry  and  changes  in  the  customer’s  manufacturing  environment  learned  through  discussions  with 
customers and sales personnel. As a result of accruing revenue for the quarter based on such estimates, adjustments will 
be required in the following quarter to true-up revenue to the actual amounts reported. 

Contract Balances 

The Company performs its obligations under a contract with a customer by licensing software or providing services 
in exchange for consideration from the customer. The timing of the Company’s performance often differs from the timing 
of the customer’s payment, which results in the recognition of a receivable, a contract asset or a contract liability. 

The Company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for software or services transferred to a customer as 
either  a  receivable  or  a  contract  asset.  A  receivable  is  a  right  to  consideration  that  is  unconditional,  as  compared  to  a 
contract asset, which is a right to consideration that is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. The majority 
of the Company’s contract assets represent unbilled amounts related to fixed-price service contracts when the revenue 
recognized  exceeds  the  amount  billed  to  the  customer. The  contract  assets  are  generally  classified  as  current  and  are 
recorded on a net basis with deferred revenue (i.e. contract liabilities) at the contract level. As of December 31, 2023 and 
2022, contract assets of $6.8 million and $3.3 million, respectively, are included in prepaid expenses and other current 
assets  in  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.  As  of  December 31,  2023  and  2022,  contract  assets  of 
$0.9 million  and  nil,  respectively,  are  included  in  other  non-current  assets  in  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance 
Sheets. The Company did not record any asset impairment charges related to contract assets during fiscal years 2023, 2022 
and 2021. 

Deferred revenues and billings in excess of recognized revenues consist substantially of amounts invoiced in advance 
of  revenue  recognition  and  are  recognized  as  the  revenue  recognition  criteria  are  met.  Deferred  revenues  that  will  be 
recognized during the succeeding twelve-month period are recorded as current deferred revenues and the remaining portion 
is recorded in other non-current liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2023 
and 2022, the non-current portion of deferred revenues included in non-current liabilities was $1.8 million and $1.9 million, 
respectively. Revenue recognized for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, that was included in the deferred 
revenues  and  billings  in  excess  of  recognized  revenues  balances  at  the  beginning  of  each  reporting  period  was  $24.8 
million, $24.9 million and $16.9 million, respectively. 

71 

Table of Contents 

As  of  December 31,  2023,  the  aggregate  amount  of  the  transaction  price  allocated  to  the  remaining  performance 
obligations related to customer contracts that were unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied was approximately $229.8 million. 
Given the applicable contract terms with customers, the majority of this amount is expected to be recognized as revenue 
over  the  next  three  years,  with  the  remainder  in  the  following  three  years.  This  amount  does  not  include  significant 
contracts to which the customer is not committed, future sales-based or usage-based royalty payments in exchange for a 
license of IP, and future payments for performance obligations from on-demand arrangements. This amount is subject to 
change  due  to  future  revaluations  of  variable  consideration,  terminations,  other  contract  modifications,  or  currency 
adjustments. The estimated timing of the recognition of remaining unsatisfied performance obligations is subject to change 
and is affected by changes to the scope, change in timing of delivery of products and services, or contract modifications. 

The  adjustment  to  revenue  recognized  in  the years  ended  December 31,  2023,  2022  and  2021  from  performance 
obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods was an increase of $3.7 million, an increase of $0.4 million 
and  a  decrease  $0.4  million,  respectively.  These  amounts  primarily  represent  changes  in  estimated percentage-of-
completion based contracts and changes in actual versus estimated Gainshare royalty. 

Costs to obtain or fulfill a contract 

The Company capitalizes the incremental costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, including direct sales 
commissions and related fees, when it expects to recover those costs. Amortization expense related to these capitalized 
costs is recognized over the period associated with the revenue from which the cost was incurred. Total capitalized direct 
sales commission costs included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance 
Sheets as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $2.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Total capitalized direct sales 
commission  costs  included  in  other  non-current  assets  in  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  as  of 
December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $2.6 million and $2.1 million, respectively. Amortization of these assets for each of 
the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $2.1 million, $1.5 million and $0.7 million, respectively. There 
was no impairment loss in relation to the costs capitalized for the periods presented. 

Practical Expedients 

The Company does not adjust transaction price for the effects of a significant financing component when the period 
between the transfers of the promised good or service to the customer and payment for that good or service by the customer 
is expected to be one year or less. The Company assessed each of its revenue generating arrangements in order to determine 
whether  a  significant  financing  component  exists,  and  determined  its  contracts  did  not  include  a  significant  financing 
component for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. 

72 

Table of Contents 

3. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 

Property and equipment consist of (in thousands): 

Computer equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture, fixtures, and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leasehold improvements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Laboratory and other equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Test equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Property and equipment in progress: 

DFI™ system assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CV® system and other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 

Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 

December 31,  

2023 
 12,515  
 5,596  
 2,501  
 6,475  
 4,891  
 25,044  

 22,864  
 6,977  
 86,863  
 (49,525) 
 37,338  

2022 
11,853
5,395
2,484
6,467
4,431
28,403

22,231
5,105
86,369
(46,195)
40,174

$

$

Test equipment mainly includes DFI™ systems and CV® systems assets at customer sites that are contributing to 
revenue. Property and equipment in progress represent the development or construction of property and equipment that 
have not yet been placed in service for the Company’s intended use and are not depreciated. 

Depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $5.0 million, $5.5 

million and $6.2 million, respectively. 

In 2021, the Company wrote down the value of its property and equipment by $3.2 million related to its first-generation 
of e-beam tools for DFI systems wherein carrying values may not be fully recoverable due to lack of market demand and 
future needs of its customers for these tools. 

4. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 

The Company completed the acquisition of Lantern Machinery Analytics, Inc. in the year ended December 31, 2023. 

Refer to Note 14 for additional information related to the goodwill and intangible assets added from this acquisition. 

As  of  December 31,  2023  and  2022,  the  carrying  amount  of  goodwill  was  $15.0  million  and  $14.1  million, 
respectively. The following table summarizes goodwill transaction for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 
(in thousands): 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 
 14,123 
 — 
 — 
 — 
 14,123 

2023 
14,123   $ 
895  
—  
11  
15,029   $ 

2021 
$ 15,774
—
(1,651)
—
$ 14,123

Balance at beginning of year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Addition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Measurement period acquisition adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreign currency translation adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Balance at end of year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

73 

 
 
    
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
Table of Contents 

Intangible assets balance was $15.6 million and $18.1 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

Intangible assets as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, consist of the following (in thousands): 

  Amortization 
Period 
(Years) 

December 31, 2023 

December 31, 2022 

Gross 

Net 

Gross 

Net 

  Carrying   Accumulated  Carrying   Carrying   Accumulated  Carrying
     Amount      Amortization     Amount       Amount      Amortization     Amount 

Acquired identifiable intangibles: 

Customer relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     
Developed technology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     
Tradename and trademarks . . . . . . . . . . .     
Patent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     
Noncompetition agreements . . . . . . . . . .     
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    

1 - 10 
4 - 9 
2 - 10 
6 - 10 
3 

$

$

9,508
34,650
1,598
2,100
848
48,704

$

$

(7,335) $

(22,094)
(1,025)
(1,782)
(848)
(33,084) $

2,173
12,556
573
318
—
15,620

$

$

9,407   $ 

33,635  
1,598  
2,100  
 848  
47,588   $ 

 (6,684) $

 (19,647)
 (918)
 (1,696)
 (588)

2,723
13,988
680
404
260
 (29,533) $ 18,055

The weighted average amortization period for acquired identifiable intangible assets was 5.3 years as of December 31, 
2023.  The  following  table  summarizes  intangible  assets  amortization  expense  in  the  Consolidated  Statements  of 
Comprehensive Income (Loss) (in thousands): 

Amortization of acquired technology included under costs of revenues. . . . . . .
Amortization of acquired intangible assets presented separately under costs 
and expenses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total amortization of acquired intangible assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

2023 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 
 2,214 

2,266   $ 

$

2021 

2,079

1,285  
3,551   $ 

 1,270 
 3,484 

$

1,255
3,334

The Company expects annual amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets to be as follows (in thousands): 

Year Ending December 31,  
2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
2026 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
2027 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
2028 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
2029 and thereafter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Total future amortization expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   

      Amount 

$

$

3,237
3,072
2,903
2,750
2,445
1,213
15,620

There were no impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 

and 2021. 

5. LEASES 

In 2022, the Company early terminated an office lease contract. The termination of this lease reduced the Company’s 
operating lease ROU assets and lease liabilities by approximately $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The gain 
from the lease termination of approximately $0.1 million was recorded under selling, general and administrative expense 
in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

74 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
     
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
Table of Contents 

Lease expense was comprised of the following (in thousands): 

Operating lease expense (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Short-term lease and variable lease expense (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total lease expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

2023 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 
 1,457 
 1,032 
 2,489 

1,534    $ 
923   
2,457    $ 

$

$

1,860
822
2,682

2021 

(1)  Net of gain recognized upon lease termination of $0.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2022. 
(2)  Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the 
Company recognizes lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Variable lease 
expense for the periods presented primarily included common area maintenance charges. 

Supplemental consolidated balance sheets information related to leases was as follows: 

Weighted average remaining lease term under operating leases (in years). . . . . . . . . . . .
Weighted average discount rate for operating lease liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 4.4  
 4.96 %    

5.3
4.87 %

Maturity of operating lease liabilities as of December 31, 2023, are as follows (in thousands): 

December 31,  

2023 

2022 

Year Ending December 31,  
2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     $
2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
2026 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
2027 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
2028 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
2029 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Total future minimum lease payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Less: Interest (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Present value of future minimum lease payments under operating lease liabilities (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   

      Amount (1) 
1,663
1,611
1,355
1,294
929
63
6,915
(729)
6,186

$

(1)  As of December 31, 2023, the total operating lease liability includes $1.0 million related to an option to extend a 

lease term that is reasonably certain to be exercised. 

(2)  Calculated using incremental borrowing interest rate for each lease. 
(3)  Includes the current portion of operating lease liabilities of $1.5 million as of December 31, 2023. 

6. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

Strategic Partnership with Advantest 

See Note 13 for the discussion about the Company’s commitments under the strategic partnership with Advantest. 

Operating Leases 

Refer to Note 5, “Leases”, for the discussion about the Company’s lease commitments. 

75 

 
 
   
     
   
  
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Table of Contents 

Indemnifications 

The Company generally provides a warranty to its customers that its software will perform substantially in accordance 
with documented specifications typically for a period of 90 days following delivery of its products. The Company also 
indemnifies certain customers from third-party claims of IP infringement relating to the use of its products. Historically, 
costs related to these guarantees have not been significant. The Company is unable to estimate the maximum potential 
impact of these guarantees on its future results of operations. 

Purchase Obligations 

The Company has purchase obligations with certain suppliers for the purchase of goods and services entered in the 
ordinary  course  of business. As of December 31, 2023,  total  outstanding  purchase  obligations were $26.2  million,  the 
majority of which are due within the next 2 years. 

Indemnification of Officers and Directors 

As permitted by the Delaware general corporation law, the Company has included a provision in its certificate of 
incorporation to eliminate the personal liability of its officers and directors for monetary damages for breach or alleged 
breach of their fiduciary duties as officers or directors, other than in cases of fraud or other willful misconduct. 

In addition, the Bylaws of the Company provide that the Company is required to indemnify its officers and directors 
even when indemnification would otherwise be discretionary, and the Company is required to advance expenses to its 
officers and directors as incurred in connection with proceedings against them for which they may be indemnified. The 
Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors containing provisions that are in some 
respects  broader  than  the  specific  indemnification  provisions  contained  in  the  Delaware  general  corporation  law.  The 
indemnification agreements require the Company to indemnify its officers and directors against liabilities that may arise 
by reason of their status or service as officers and directors other than for liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a 
culpable nature, to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against them as to which they could be 
indemnified, and to obtain directors’ and officers’ insurance if available on reasonable terms. The Company has obtained 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in amounts comparable to other companies of the Company’s size and in the 
Company’s industry. Since a maximum obligation of the Company is not explicitly stated in the Company’s Bylaws or in 
its indemnification agreements and will depend on the facts and circumstances that arise out of any future claims, the 
overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. 

Litigation 

From time to time, the Company is subject to various claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course 
of business. The Company accrues for losses related to litigation when a potential loss is probable, and the loss can be 
reasonably estimated in accordance with FASB requirements. As of December 31, 2023, except as disclosed below, the 
Company was not party to any material legal proceedings for which a loss was probable or an amount was accrued. From 
time to time, the Company may enter into contingent fee arrangements with external legal firms that may represent the 
Company  in  legal  proceedings  related  to  disputes.  Contingent  legal  fees  are  accrued  by  the  Company  when  they  are 
probable and reasonably estimable. 

On May 6, 2020, the Company initiated an arbitration proceeding with the Hong Kong International Arbitration Center 
against SMIC New Technology Research & Development (Shanghai) Corporation (“SMIC”) due to SMIC’s failure to pay 
fees due to the Company under a series of contracts. The Company seeks to recover the unpaid fees, a declaration requiring 
SMIC to pay fees under the contracts in the future (or a lump sum payment to end the contract), and costs associated with 
bringing the arbitration proceeding. SMIC denies liability and an arbitration hearing was held in February 2023. Final 
written submissions were submitted by the parties at the end of August 2023. A decision is currently expected in 2024. 

76 

Table of Contents 

7. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

Stock Repurchase Program 

On June 4, 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a stock repurchase program (the “2020 Program”) to 
repurchase  up to  $25.0  million of  the  Company’s  common  stock  both  on  the open market  and  in privately  negotiated 
transactions, including through Rule 10b5 - 1 plans, over the next two years. During the year ended December 31, 2022, 
218,858 shares were repurchased by the Company under the 2020 Program at an average price of $26.40 per share for an 
aggregate total price of $5.8 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, 251,212 shares were repurchased by the 
Company under the 2020 Program at an average price of $18.01 per share for an aggregate total price of $4.5 million. In 
total, 470,070 shares were repurchased under the 2020 Program at an average price of $21.91 per share, for an aggregate 
total price of $10.3 million. 

On  April 11,  2022,  the  Board  of  Directors  terminated  the  2020  Program,  and  adopted  a  new  program  (the  “2022 
Program”) to repurchase up to $35.0 million of the Company’s common stock both on the open market and in privately 
negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5 - 1 plans, from time to time, over the next two years. During the year 
ended December 31, 2023, 21,340 shares were repurchased by the Company under the 2022 Program at an average price 
of $34.81 per share for an aggregate total price of $0.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2022, 714,600 shares 
were repurchased by the Company under the 2022 Program at an average price of $23.36 per share for an aggregate total 
price of $16.7 million. In total, the Company has repurchased 735,940 shares under the 2022 Program at an average price 
of $23.69 per share for an aggregate total price of $17.4 million. 

8. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 

On December 31, 2023, the Company had the following stock-based compensation plans: 

Employee Stock Purchase Plans 

In July 2001, the Company’s stockholders initially approved the 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which was 
subsequently amended and restated in 2010 (as amended, the “2010 Purchase Plan”) to extend the term of the plan through 
May 17, 2020.  Under  the  2010  Purchase  Plan,  eligible  employees  can contribute up  to 10% of  their  compensation,  as 
defined in the Purchase Plan, towards the purchase of shares of PDF common stock at a price of 85% of the lower of the 
fair market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of the purchase period. The 2010 Purchase Plan provided 
for twenty-four-month offering periods with four six-month purchase periods in each offering period. The 2010 Purchase 
Plan expired on May 17, 2020. Existing offering periods under the 2010 Plan continued through the applicable expiration 
date and the final offering period expired on January 31, 2022. On June 15, 2021, the Company’s stockholders approved 
the 2021 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which has a ten-year term (the “2021 Purchase Plan” and, together with the 2010 
Purchase Plan, the “Employee Purchase Plans”). The terms of 2021 Purchase Plan are substantially similar to those of the 
2010 Purchase Plan. A twenty-four-month offering period under the 2021 Purchase Plan commenced on August 1, 2021. 

The Company estimated the fair value of purchase rights granted under the Employee Purchase Plans during the period 
using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions, resulting in the 
following weighted average fair values: 

Expected life (in years) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Volatility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Risk-free interest rate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Expected dividend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Weighted average fair value of purchase rights  
granted during the period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2021 Purchase Plan 
Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2021 

2023 

1.25

43.66 %  
5.15 %  
—

 1.25 
48.73  %    
 2.75  %    

 — 

1.25

48.00 %  
0.11 %  
—

$

15.71

$

10.00   

  $ 

6.71

77 

 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, a total of 223,608 and 182,083 shares, respectively, were issued 
under the 2021 Purchase Plan, at a weighted-average purchase price of $17.14 per share and $16.15 per share, respectively. 
During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 a total of 5,203 and 108,623 shares, respectively, were issued under 
the 2010 Purchase Plan, at a weighted-average purchase price of $13.40 per share and $9.53 per share, respectively. As of 
December 31, 2023, unrecognized compensation cost related to the 2021 Purchase Plan was $3.0 million. This estimated 
unrecognized cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.5 years. 

As of December 31, 2023, 594,309 shares were available for future issuance under the 2021 Purchase Plan. 

Stock Incentive Plans 

On November 16, 2011, the Company’s stockholders initially approved the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan, which has 
been amended and restated and approved by the Company’s stockholders a number of times since then (as amended, the 
“2011 Plan”). Under the 2011 Plan, the Company may award stock options, stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), stock 
grants or stock units covering shares of the Company’s common stock to employees, directors, non-employee directors 
and contractors. The aggregate number of shares reserved for awards under the 2011 Plan is 13.8 million shares, plus up 
to 3.5 million shares previously issued under the 2001 Stock Plan adopted by the Company in 2001, which expired in 2011 
(the “2001 Plan”) that are either (i) forfeited or (ii) repurchased by the Company or are shares subject to awards previously 
issued  under  the  2001  Plan  that  expire  or  that  terminate  without  having  been  exercised  or  settled  in  full  on  or  after 
November 16, 2011. In case of awards other than options or SARs, the aggregate number of shares reserved under the 
2011 Plan will be decreased at a rate of 1.33 shares issued pursuant to such awards. The exercise price for stock options 
must generally be at prices no less than the fair market value at the date of grant. Stock options generally expire ten years 
from the date of grant and become vested and exercisable over a four-year period. 

As of December 31, 2023, 14.3 million shares of common stock were reserved to cover stock-based awards under the 
2011 Plan, of which 3.7 million shares were available for future grant. The number of shares reserved and available under 
the 2011 Plan includes 0.5 million shares that were subject to awards previously made under the 2001 Plan and were 
forfeited, expired or repurchased by the Company after the adoption of the 2011 Plan through December 31, 2023. As of 
December 31, 2023, there were no outstanding awards that were granted outside of the 2011 or 2001 Plans (collectively, 
the “Stock Plans”). 

The  Company  has  elected  to  use  the  Black-Scholes-Merton  option-pricing  model,  which  incorporates  various 
assumptions including volatility, expected life, interest rate and expected dividend. The expected volatility is based on the 
historical  volatility  of  the  Company’s  common  stock  over  the  most  recent  period  commensurate  with  the  estimated 
expected life of the Company’s stock options. The expected life of an award is based on historical experience and on the 
terms  and  conditions  of  the  stock  awards  granted  to  employees.  The  interest  rate  assumption  is  based  upon  observed 
Treasury yield curve rates appropriate for the expected life of the Company’s stock options. 

No stock options were granted during the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. 

Stock-based compensation is estimated at the grant date based on the award’s fair value and is recognized on a straight-
line basis over the vesting periods, generally four years. As stock-based compensation expense recognized is based on 
awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of 
grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. 

78 

Table of Contents 

Stock-based compensation expenses related to the Company’s stock plans and employee stock purchase plans were 

allocated as follows (in thousands): 

Costs of revenues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Research and development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Selling, general, and administrative . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stock-based compensation expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

2023 

Year Ended December 31, 
2022 

2021 

4,169
7,711
9,604
21,484

$

$

 2,974  
 9,391  
 7,284  
 19,649  

$ 

$ 

2,563
5,515
4,853
12,931

Stock-based  compensation  capitalized  in  the  capitalized  software  development  costs  included  in  property  and 
equipment, net, was $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, and nil for the years ended December 31, 2022 
and 2021. 

Additional information with respect to options under the Plans is as follows: 

Outstanding Options 

Number of 
Options 
(in thousands) 
68
—
(30)
—
—
38

  Weighted 
Average 
Exercise 
Price 

$

     per Share 
16.11
—
16.36
—
—
15.92

$

38
37

$
$

15.91
15.84

  Weighted   

Average 

  Remaining  
  Contractual 
Term 
(Years) 

Aggregate 
Intrinsic 
Value 
(in thousands) 

 4.05   $ 

 4.05   $ 
 3.97   $ 

619

619
599

Outstanding, January 1, 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Granted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Exercised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Canceled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Expired . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Outstanding, December 31, 2023 . . . . . . . . .    
Vested and expected to vest, 
December 31, 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    
Exercisable, December 31, 2023 . . . . . . . . .    

The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total intrinsic value based on the Company’s closing 
stock price of $32.14 as of December 31, 2023, which would have been received by the option holders had all option 
holders exercised their options as of that date.  

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was as follows 

(in thousands): 

Intrinsic value of options exercised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

2023 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 
 2,287 

630    $ 

$

2021 

2,972

Total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options as of December 31, 2023, which 
is expected to be fully recognized in 2024, and total fair value of shares vested during the year ended December 31, 2023, 
was immaterial. 

79 

 
 
   
   
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
      
 
 
 
   
     
   
Table of Contents 

Nonvested shares (restricted stock units) were as follows: 

Weighted 

Nonvested, January 1, 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Granted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vested . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forfeited . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nonvested, December 31, 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 2,124   $ 
 783  
 (882) 
 (30) 
 1,995   $ 

  Average Grant
  Date Fair Value

Shares  
   (in thousands)     

Per Share 

21.29
43.46
21.00
27.60
30.03

The weighted average grant date fair values of restricted stock units granted during fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 were 

$43.46, $23.23 and $19.43, respectively.  

The total fair value of restricted stock units vested during fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021 was as follows (in thousands): 

Fair value of restricted stock units vested . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2023 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 
 22,676 

2021 
13,617

$

$ 32,786    $ 

As of December 31, 2023, there was $45.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock 
units. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.5 years. Restricted stock units do not 
have rights to dividends prior to vesting. 

401(k) Savings Plan 

The  Company  sponsors  a  401(k) Retirement  Savings  Plan  (the  “401(k) Plan”)  covering  substantially  all  of  its  US 
employees. The Company’s 401(k) Plan is a defined contribution plan with a 401(k) salary deferral arrangement qualified 
under appropriate provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and applicable state laws.  Under the 401(k) Plan, 
eligible employees may make pre-tax salary or after-tax contributions up to 60% of annual compensation, as defined by 
the  401(k) Plan.  In  addition,  participants  who  have  reached  the  age  of  50  can  elect  to  withhold  additional  catch-up 
contributions  subject  to  the  Code  and  the  401(k) Plan  limits.  Participants  may  also  contribute  amounts  representing 
distributions  from  other  qualified  plans  (rollovers).  The  Company  may  make  discretionary  matching  contributions.  In 
fiscal 2023 and 2022, the Company matched from 50% to 100% of each employee’s contribution up to a maximum of 4% 
of  the  employee’s  total  eligible  earnings.  The  Company’s  matching  contributions  to  the  401(k) Plan  aggregated  $1.7 
million and $1.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. No discretionary Company contributions were 
made to the Plan through December 31, 2021. 

80 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
 
 
Table of Contents 

9. INCOME TAXES 

During  the  years  ended  December 31,  2023,  2022  and  2021,  income  (loss)  before  income  tax  expense  from  U.S. 
operations was $3.2 million, ($1.2) million and ($19.7) million, respectively, and income before income tax expense from 
foreign operations was $1.7 million, $1.7 million and $1.4 million, respectively. 

2023 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 
(In thousands) 

2021 

U.S. 

Current . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deferred . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Foreign 

Current . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withholding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deferred . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total income tax expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

(353)  $ 
3  

 1,210  $
 13 

(67)
1,318

453  
1,770  
(109) 
1,764   $ 

 577 
 2,111 
 (12)
 3,899  $

237
1,591
92
3,171

The income tax expense differs from the amount estimated by applying the statutory federal income tax rate (21% for 

2023, 2022 and 2021) for the following reasons (in thousands): 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2023 

Federal statutory tax expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State tax provision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stock compensation expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreign tax, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreign-derived intangible income (FDII) deduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change in valuation allowance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Section 162(m) limitation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unrealized tax benefit reserve changes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total income tax expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

1,016    $ 
(65) 
(1,747) 
(3,214) 
1,859   
(1,612) 
5,043   
424   
99   
(39) 
1,764    $ 

 106 
 949 
 (898)
 (2,877)
 2,195 
 (830)
 5,122 
 92 
 136 
 (96)
 3,899 

$

$

2021 
(3,847)
239
(499)
(2,676)
1,653
—
8,099
—
(151)
353
3,171

As of December 31, 2023, the Company had federal and California net operating loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”) of 
approximately  $7.2  million  and  $12.7  million,  respectively.  Some  of  the  federal  NOLs,  acquired  as  part  of  a  past 
acquisition, have expirations at the end of this fiscal year and onwards, and the California NOLs begin expiring in 2028 
onwards. 

As of December 31, 2023, the Company had federal and state research and experimental and other tax credit (“R&D 
credits”) carry-forwards of approximately $23.7 million and $24.5 million, respectively. The federal credits began to expire 
in 2022, while the California credits have no expiration. The extent to which the federal and state credit carry-forwards 
can be used to offset future tax liabilities, respectively, may be limited, depending on the extent of ownership changes 
within any three-year period as provided in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and the California Conformity Act of 1987. 

The Company assesses its deferred tax assets for recoverability on a regular basis, and where applicable, a valuation 
allowance is recorded to reduce the total deferred tax asset to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized in the 
future. Based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, the Company determined a full valuation allowance 
was still appropriate for its federal and state net deferred tax assets (“DTAs”) as of December 31, 2023, primarily driven 
by a cumulative loss incurred over the 12 - quarter period ended December 31, 2023 and the likelihood that the Company 
will not utilize tax attributes before they begin to expire. The valuation allowance was approximately $64.2 million and 
$59.2 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in the valuation allowance from December 

81 

 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
Table of Contents 

31, 2022 to December 31, 2023 was primarily driven by an increase in capitalized research and experimental expenses and 
credits generated in the current year which require a valuation allowance. Management will continue to evaluate the need 
for a valuation allowance and may change its conclusion in a future period based on any change in facts (e.g. 12 - quarter 
cumulative profit, significant new revenue, and other relevant factors). If the Company concludes that it is more likely 
than not to utilize some or all of its U.S. DTAs, it will release some or all of its valuation allowance and the Company’s 
tax  provision  will  decrease  in  the  period  in  which  such  determination  is  made.  Net  deferred  tax  assets,  after  the  U.S. 
valuation allowance, were immaterial as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. 

The components of the net deferred tax assets are comprised of (in thousands): 

December 31,  

2023 

2022 

Deferred tax assets 

Net operating loss carry forward  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Research and development and other credit carry forward. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Foreign tax credit carry forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capitalized research and experimental expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accruals deductible in different periods  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stock-based compensation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total deferred tax assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less: valuation allowance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 

 3,005    $
 30,633   
 7,611   
 20,403   
 4,037   
 1,282   
 1,882   
 68,853   
 (64,152) 
 4,701   

Deferred tax liabilities 

Property and equipment, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operating lease right-of-use assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intangible assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deferred tax liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 (612) 
 (1,266) 
 (2,995) 
 (4,873) 

3,861
28,046
11,764
10,069
7,713
1,623
1,948
65,024
(59,215)
5,809

(540)
(1,635)
(3,617)
(5,792)

Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 

 (172)  $

17

The Company classifies its liabilities for income tax exposures as long-term. The Company includes interest related 
to unrecognized tax benefits within the Company’s income tax provision. As of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, the 
Company had accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of $0.7 million. In the years ended December 31, 2023, 
2022  and  2021,  the  Company  recognized  (reversal  of) charges for  interest  related  to  unrecognized  tax  benefits  of 
($15,000), ($61,000) and ($89,000) respectively, in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). 

The Company’s total amount of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, as of December 31, 2023 was $15.9 
million, of which $2.0 million, if recognized, would impact the Company’s effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2023, 
the  Company  has  recorded  unrecognized  tax  benefits  of  $2.6  million,  including  interest  of  $0.7  million,  as  long-term 
income taxes payable in its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The remaining $14.0 million has been recorded within DTAs, 
which is subject to a full valuation allowance. The Company does not expect the change in unrecognized tax benefits over 
the next twelve months to materially impact its results of operations and financial position. 

82 

 
 
    
    
 
    
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
Table of Contents 

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in thousands): 

      Amount 

Gross unrecognized tax benefits, January 1, 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Increases in tax positions for current year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Increases in tax positions for prior years  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Lapse in statute of limitations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Gross unrecognized tax benefits, December 31, 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Increases in tax positions for current year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Increases in tax positions for prior years  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Lapse in statute of limitations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Gross unrecognized tax benefits, December 31, 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Increases in tax positions for current year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Increases in tax positions for prior years  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Lapse in statute of limitations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Gross unrecognized tax benefits, December 31, 2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   

$

$

14,300
853
1
(411)
14,743
988
—
(622)
15,109
1,469
91
(732)
15,937

The Company does not provide deferred taxes on undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries as it intends to 

indefinitely reinvest those earnings. 

The Company conducts business globally and, as a result, files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns 
in  the  U.S. federal,  various  state  and  foreign  jurisdictions.  For  U.S.  federal  and  California  income  tax  purposes, the 
statute of  limitations  currently  remains  open  for the years  ended  2020  to  present  and  2019  to  present,  respectively. In 
addition, all of the NOLs and R&D credit carry-forwards that may be utilized in future years may be subject to federal and 
state examination. The Company is not currently under income tax examinations in the U.S. or in any other of its major 
foreign subsidiaries’ jurisdictions. 

Valuation allowance for DTAs is summarized (in thousands): 

  Balance at  Charged to   Deductions/   Balance at
  Beginning  Income Tax   Write-offs of 
    of Period     Expense 

     Accounts 
 — 
 — 
 — 

4,937   $ 
7,629   $ 
9,727   $ 

End of 
     Period 
$ 64,152
$ 59,215
$ 51,586

2023 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 59,215
$ 51,586
$ 41,859

$
$
$

83 

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

10. NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE 

Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by weighted average number of common 
shares  outstanding  for  the  period  (excluding  outstanding  stock  options  and  shares  subject  to  repurchase).  Diluted  net 
income (loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period plus 
the potential effect of dilutive  securities which are convertible into common shares (using the treasury stock method), 
except  in  cases  in  which  the  effect  would  be  anti-dilutive.  The  following  is  a  reconciliation  of  the  numerators  and 
denominators used in computing basic and diluted net income (loss) per share (in thousands except per share amount): 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2021 

2023 

Numerator: 
Net income (loss)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denominator: 

Basic weighted average shares outstanding  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Effect of dilutive stock options, unvested restricted stock units, and shares 
of common stock expected to be issued under employee stock purchase 
plan(s)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

3,105   $ 

 (3,429)

$ (21,488)

38,015  

 37,309 

37,138

922  
38,937  

 — 
 37,309 

—
37,138

Net income (loss) per share: 
Basic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diluted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$
$

0.08   $ 
0.08   $ 

 (0.09)
 (0.09)

$
$

(0.58)
(0.58)

For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, because the Company was in a loss position, basic net loss per 
share is the same as diluted net loss per share as the inclusion of the potential common shares would have been anti-
dilutive. 

The following table sets forth potential shares of common stock that are not included in the diluted net income (loss) 

per share calculation above because to do so would be anti-dilutive for the periods indicated (in thousands): 

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2023 

2021 

Outstanding options  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Non-vested restricted stock units . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employee Stock Purchase Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

—   
351  
—  
351  

 56 
 787 
 84 
 927 

170
968
33
1,171

11. CUSTOMER AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION 

Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available 
that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in 
assessing performance. 

The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the chief executive officer, reviews discrete financial information 
presented  on  a  consolidated  basis  for  purposes  of  regularly  making  operating  decisions,  allocation  of  resources,  and 
assessing financial performance. Accordingly, the Company considers itself to be in one operating and reporting segment, 
specifically the provision of services for differentiated data and analytics solutions to the semiconductor and electronics 
industries. 

84 

 
 
   
     
   
    
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
     
   
 
Table of Contents 

Revenues  from  individual  customers  that  are  approximately  10%  or  more  of  the  Company’s  consolidated  total 

revenues are as follows: 

Customer 
A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

2021 

2023 

35 %  
* %  
* %  

 31 %   
 10 %   
* %   

17 %
* %
10 %

Gross  accounts  receivable  balances  (including  amounts  that  are  unbilled)  from  individual  customers  that  are 

approximately 10% or more of the Company’s gross accounts receivable balance are as follows: 

Customer 
A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

December 31,  

2023 

2022 

 39 %    
* %    
* %    
 11 %    

29 %
12 %
12 %
* %

* 

represents less than 10% 

Revenues from customers by geographic area based on the location of the customers’ work sites are as follows (in 

thousands): 

2023 

2021 
  Percentage
     Revenues    of Revenues Revenues    of Revenues Revenues      of Revenues

Percentage

Percentage

Year Ended December 31,  
2022 

United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $   92,798 
 26,488 
China  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
 10,465 
Japan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   
Rest of the world . . . . . . . . . . . .   
 36,084 
Total revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $  165,835 

56 % $ 73,625
24,494
16
13,916
6
36,514
22
100 % $ 148,549

50 % $   50,374  
 14,267  
16
 11,097  
9
 35,322  
25
100 % $  111,060   

45 %
13
10
32
100 %

Long-lived assets, net by geographic area is as follows (in thousands): 

United States (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rest of the world . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total long-lived assets, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

 45,619    $
 1,362   
 46,981    $

44,730
1,446
46,176

December 31,  

2023 

2022 

(1)  Includes assets deployed at customer sites which could be outside the U.S. 

12. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 

Fair value is the exit price, or the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly  transaction  between  market  participants  as  of  the  measurement  date.  The  multiple  assumptions  used  to  value 
financial instruments are referred to as inputs, and a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value is established, that 
maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable 
inputs be used when available. Observable inputs reflect assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or 
liability based on market data obtained from independent sources while unobservable inputs reflect a reporting entity’s 

85 

 
   
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
     
 
 
Table of Contents 

pricing based upon its own market assumptions. These inputs are ranked according to a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes 
the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. 

Level 1 - 
Level 2 - 

Level 3 - 

Inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
Inputs are quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in an active market, quoted prices for identical or
similar  assets  or  liabilities  in  markets  that  are  not  active,  inputs  other  than  quoted  prices  that  are
observable  and  market-corroborated  inputs  which  are  derived  principally  from  or  corroborated  by
observable market data. 
Inputs are derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or value drivers
are unobservable. 

The following table represents the Company’s assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 

2023 and the basis for that measurement (in thousands): 

Assets 
Cash equivalents 

  December 31, 
2023 

Fair Value Measurements Using 
  Quoted 
  Prices in 
Active 
  Markets for  
Identical 
Assets 
(Level 1) 

  Significant 
Other 
  Observable 
Inputs 
(Level 2) 

Significant 
  Unobservable
    Inputs (Level 3)

Money market mutual funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

83,810

$

83,810

$

 —    $ 

Short-term investments (available-for-sale 
debt securities) 

U.S. Government securities (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

36,544
120,354

36,544
120,354

$

$

 —   
 —    $ 

—

—
—

The following table represents the Company’s assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 

2022 and the basis for that measurement (in thousands): 

Assets 
Cash equivalents 

  December 31, 
2022 

Fair Value Measurements Using 
  Quoted 
Prices in 
Active 
  Markets for  
Identical 
Assets 
(Level 1) 

Other 
  Observable 
Inputs 
(Level 2) 

  Significant 

  Significant 
  Unobservable
Inputs  
(Level 3) 

Money market mutual funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
U.S. Government securities (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Short-term investments (available-for-sale debt 
securities) 

U.S. Government securities (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

$

75,738
1,990

19,557
97,285

$

$

75,738
1,990

19,557
97,285

$

$

 —    $
 —   

 —   
 —    $

—
—

—
—

(1)  The carrying amount of the Company’s investments in U.S. Government securities approximate fair value due to 
their short-term maturities, and there have been no events or changes in circumstances that would have had a 
significant effect on the fair value of these securities as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. 

86 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
       
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
    
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

13. STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT WITH ADVANTEST AND RELATED PARTY 
TRANSACTIONS 

In  July 2020,  the  Company entered  into  a  long-term  strategic  partnership  with  Advantest  Corporation  through  its 
wholly-owned subsidiary, Advantest America, Inc. (collectively referred to herein as “Advantest”), which includes: (i) a 
Securities  Purchase  Agreement  wherein  the  Company  issued  and  sold  to  Advantest  America,  Inc.,  an  aggregate  of 
3,306,924 shares of its common stock, for aggregate gross proceeds of $65.2 million; (ii) a significant agreement for its 
assistance in development of cloud-based applications for Advantest tools that leverages our Exensio analytics software ; 
(iii) a commercial agreement providing for the license to third parties of solutions that result from the development work 
that combine Advantest’s testing applications and our Exensio platform; and (iv) a 5 - year cloud-based subscription for 
Exensio analytics software and related services. 

Analytics revenue recognized from Advantest during the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $9.0 
million,  $10.3  million  and  $10.6  million,  respectively.  Accounts  receivable  from  Advantest  were  not  material  as  of 
December 31, 2023 and amounted to $0.3 million as of December 31, 2022. Deferred revenue amounted to $9.4 million 
and $7.1 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 

The Company carries out transactions with Advantest on arm’s length commercial customary terms. 

14. BUSINESS COMBINATION 

On  July 5,  2023  (the  “Acquisition  Date”),  the  Company,  through  its  wholly-owned  subsidiary  in  Canada,  PDF 
Solutions  Canada,  Ltd.,  acquired  100%  of  the  equity  interest  in  Lantern  Machinery  Analytics,  Inc.  headquartered  in 
Canada,  a  privately-held  provider  of  automated  image  analysis  and  feature  extraction  AI/ML  software  for  critical 
inspection and metrology steps at battery cell development and manufacturing processes for the electric vehicle industry. 
This software will enhance the Company’s Exensio analytics software and product offerings to new and existing battery 
manufacturer customers. The total cash consideration for this acquisition was $1.8 million, net of cash acquired, for all of 
the outstanding equity of Lantern Machinery Analytics, Inc.  

The Company accounted for this acquisition as a business combination in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 805, 
Business Combinations. This method requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination be 
recognized at their respective estimated fair values as of the Acquisition Date. The excess of purchase consideration over 
the fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired was recorded as goodwill. The goodwill recorded 
from this acquisition represents business benefits the Company anticipates from the acquired workforce and expectation 
for  expanded  sales  opportunities  to  foster  further  business  growth.  Due  to  the  nature  of  the  transaction,  the  goodwill 
associated  with  the  acquisition  is  not  deductible  for  tax  purposes.  As  of  December 31,  2023,  payment  made  for  this 
acquisition, net of cash acquired, amounted to $1.8 million and was funded from available cash of the Company. 

87 

 
 
Table of Contents 

The allocation of the purchase price for this acquisition, as of the date of the acquisition, is as follows (in thousands, 

except amortization period): 

  Amortization
    Amount      Period (Years)

Allocation of Purchase Price: 
Assets 
Fair value of tangible assets (including cash of $265) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fair value of intangible assets: 

Developed technology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Customer relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Goodwill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total assets acquired . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Liabilities 
Deferred tax liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accounts payable and accrued expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total liabilities assumed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total purchase price allocation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 

 450   

 1,010   
 100   
 895   
 2,455   

 294  
 73   
 367   
 2,088   

$ 

8
6
N/A

Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effect of the acquisition was not material to the 

Company’s financial results. 

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

None. 

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

Our  management,  with  the  participation  of  our principal  executive  officer  and  principal  financial  and  accounting 
officer,  evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  our  “disclosure  controls  and  procedures”  as  defined  in  Exchange  Act  Rules 
13a - 15(e) and 15d - 15(e) as of December 31, 2023, in connection with the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. 
Based on that evaluation, as of December 31, 2023, our principal executive officer and principal financial and accounting 
officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information we are required to 
disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within 
the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC and is accumulated and communicated to our management as 
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as 
defined  in  Rules  13a - 15(f) and  15d - 15(f) under  the  Exchange  Act,  for  the  Company.  Our  management,  with  the 
participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial and accounting officer, assessed the effectiveness 
of  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  (ICFR)  as  of  December 31,  2023.  This  evaluation  was  based  on  the 
framework  established  in  Internal  Control—Integrated  Framework  (2013)  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring 
Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission  (“COSO”).  Based  on  our  assessment  under  the  COSO  framework,  our 
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2023. 

The  effectiveness  of  the  Company’s  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of December 31,  2023,  has  been 
audited by BPM LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears 
in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. 

88 

 
 
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

There were no changes in internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2023, 

which has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

Item 9B.  Other Information. 

Insider Adoption or Termination of Trading Arrangements 

During  the  quarter  ended  December 31,  2023,  none  of  our  directors  or  officers  informed  us  of  the  adoption  or 
termination of a “Rule 10b5 - 1 trading arrangement” or “non-Rule 10b5 - 1 trading arrangement,” as those terms are defined 
in Regulation S-K, Item 408. 

Item 9C.  Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 

None. 

89 

 
 
Table of Contents 

PART III 

Pursuant to Paragraph (3) of the General Instructions to Form 10 - K, certain of the information required by Part III of 
this Form 10 - K is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement as set forth below. The Proxy Statement is expected 
to be filed within 120 days of December 31, 2023. 

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 

Information  with  respect  to  our  directors  and  our  Audit  Committee  appears  in  our  Proxy  Statement  under 
“Proposal No. 1 — Election  of  Class  II  Directors —  Nominees  for  Class  II  Directors”  and  is  incorporated  herein  by 
reference. Information with respect to our executive officers appears in Part I, Item 1 — “Information about our Executive 
Officers” of this Form 10 - K. 

With regard to the information required by this item regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, 
we will provide disclosure of delinquent Section 16(a) reports, if any, in our Proxy Statement, and such disclosure, if any, 
is incorporated herein by reference. 

Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics (“Code of Ethics”), which is applicable to all employees of the 
Company, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial and accounting officer. Our Code of Ethics 
is available on our website at www.pdf.com, on the investor relations page. The Company’s website address provided is 
not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information on the Company’s website is not, and should not be considered, 
part of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K and is not incorporated by reference herein. You may also request a copy of our 
Code of Ethics in writing by sending your request to PDF Solutions, Inc., Attention: Investor Relations, 2858 De La Cruz 
Blvd., Santa Clara, California 95050. If we make any substantive amendments to our Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, 
including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Code of Ethics to our Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial 
Officer, we will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website or in a current report on Form 8 - K. 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation. 

The  information  required  by  this  item  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  the  section  entitled  “Executive 

Compensation” in our Proxy Statement. 

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled “Security Ownership 
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in our Proxy Statement. Also incorporated by reference is the information 
in the table under the heading “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our Proxy Statement. 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled “Certain Relationships 

and Related Transactions” and “Corporate Governance — Director Independence” in our Proxy Statement. 

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 

Information with respect to Principal Accountant Fees and Services is incorporated by reference to “Proposal No. 2: 

Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our Proxy Statement. 

90 

 
 
Table of Contents 

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report: 

PART IV 

(1)  Consolidated Financial Statements and Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms 

The following documents are included as Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10 - K: 

Page

Reports of BPM LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 207) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 
and 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 . . . .
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021  . . . . . . . . . . .
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

53
57

58
59
60
62

(2)  Financial Statement Schedules 

All financial statement schedules have been omitted, since the required information is not applicable or is not present 
in  amounts  sufficient  to  require  submission  of  the  schedule,  or  because  the  information  required  is  included  in  the 
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10 - K. 

(3)  Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K 

See Item 15(b) below. 

91 

  
  
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

(b)  Exhibits 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit 
Number 

Exhibit Description 

Form 

Filing 
Date 

Exhibit 
Number 

SEC File 
Number 

Provided 
Herewith 

3.01 

3.02 

4.01 

4.02 

Third Amended and Restated Certificate of 
Incorporation of PDF Solutions, Inc. 

S - 1/A 

7/9/2001 

3.2 

333 - 43192

Amended and Restated Bylaws of PDF 
Solutions, Inc. 

Stockholder Agreement by and between 
PDF Solutions, Inc. and Advantest 
America, Inc. dated July 30, 2020  

Description of the Registrant’s Securities 
Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

8 - K 

5/1/2019 

3.1 

000 - 31311

10 - Q 

11/6/2020 

4.2 

000 - 31311

10 - K 

3/1/2022 

4.03 

000 - 31311

10.01 

Form of Indemnification Agreement 
between PDF Solutions, Inc. and certain of 
its senior executive officers and directors* 

10 - K 

3/16/2009 

10.17 

000 - 31311

10.02 

PDF Solutions, Inc. 2021 Employee Stock 
Purchase Plan* 

DEF14A  4/28/2021  Appendix 

000 - 31311

A 

10.03 

PDF Solutions, Inc. Eighth Amended and 
Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan* 

DEF14A  4/27/2023  Appendix 

000 - 31311

A 

10.04 

Form of Stock Option Agreement (Non-
statutory) under PDF Solutions, Inc. 2011 
Stock Incentive Plan* 

10 - K 

3/15/2012 

10.18 

000 - 31311

10.05 

Form of Stock Unit Agreement under PDF 
Solutions, Inc. 2011 Stock Incentive Plan* 

10 - K 

3/15/2012 

10.19 

000 - 31311

10.06 

Board of Directors Acceleration 
Agreement* 

X 

10.07 

Employment offer to Adnan Raza, dated 
January 23, 2020* 

10 - K 

3/10/2020 

10.17 

000 - 31311

92 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

Exhibit 
Number 

10.08 

10.9 

10.10 

10.11 

10.12 

Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit Description 

Form 

Filing 
Date 

Exhibit 
Number 

SEC File 
No. 

Provided 
Herewith 

Software License and Related Services 
Agreement by and between PDF 
Solutions, Inc. and Advantest America, Inc. 
dated March 25, 2020 and Amendment 
No.1 thereto dated July 29, 2020+ 

Amendment #1 to Amendment #1 to 
Software License and Related Services 
Agreement by and between PDF Solutions, 
Inc. and Advantest America, Inc., dated 
June 5, 2022, by and between PDF 
Solutions, Inc. and Advantest America, 
Inc.+ 

Amendment #2 to Amendment #1 to 
Software License and Related Services 
Agreement by and between PDF Solutions, 
Inc. and Advantest America, Inc., signed 
November 11, 2022, by and between PDF 
Solutions, Inc. and Advantest America, 
Inc.+ 

Amended and Restated Master 
Development Agreement by and between 
PDF Solutions, Inc. and Advantest 
America, Inc. dated July 29, 2020+ 

Addendum #1 to Revised 2020 Contract, 
signed March 17, 2023, by and between 
PDF Solutions, Inc. and Advantest America, 
Inc.+ 

10 - Q 

11/6/2020 

10.1 

000 - 31311

10 - Q 

11/10/2022 

10.01 

000 - 31311

10 - K 

3/1/2023 

10.13 

000 - 31311

10 - Q 

11/6/2020 

10.2 

000 - 31311

10 - Q 

8/8/2023 

10.2 

000 - 31311

10.13  Master Commercial Terms and Support 

10 - Q 

11/6/2020 

10.3 

000 - 31311

Services Agreement by and between PDF 
Solutions, Inc. and Advantest America, Inc. 
dated July 29, 2020+ 

10.14 

Securities Purchase Agreement by and 
between PDF Solutions, Inc. and Advantest 
America, Inc. dated July 29, 2020+ 

21.01 

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

23.01 

Consent of BPM LLP, Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm 

10 - Q 

11/6/2020 

4.1 

000 - 31311

X 

X 

93 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit Description 

Form 

Filing 
Date 

Exhibit 
Number 

SEC File 
No. 

Provided 
Herewith 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

Table of Contents 

Exhibit 
Number 

31.01 

31.02 

32.01 

32.02 

Certifications of the principal executive 
officer and principal financial and accounting 
officer pursuant to Exchange Act 
Rules 13a - 14(a) and 15d - 14(a), as adopted 
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 

Certifications of the principal executive 
officer and principal financial and accounting 
officer pursuant to Exchange Act 
Rules 13a - 14(a) and 15d - 14(a), as adopted 
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002† 

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002† 

97.01 

Compensation Recovery Policy 

101 

The following financial statements from the 
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10 - K for 
the year ended December 31, 2023, formatted 
in Inline XBRL: (i) Consolidated Balance 
Sheets as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, 
(ii) Consolidated Statements of 
Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years 
Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, 
(iii) Consolidated Statements of Changes in 
Stockholders’ Equity for the Years Ended 
December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, 
(iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 
2022 and 2021, and (v) Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of text 
and including detailed tags. 

94 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

Exhibit 
Number 

104 

Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit Description 

Form 

Filing 
Date 

Exhibit 
Number 

SEC File 
No. 

Provided 
Herewith 

Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted 
as Inline XBRL and contained in 
Exhibit 101) 

*  Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
†  Furnished, and not filed. 
+  Certain portions of this document that constitute confidential information have been redacted in accordance with 

Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(10). 

Item 16.  Form 10 - K Summary 

Not applicable. 

95 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly 

caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

SIGNATURES 

PDF SOLUTIONS, INC.

By:/s/ John K. Kibarian
John K. Kibarian

  President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal executive officer) 

By:/s/  Adnan Raza
  Adnan Raza
    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief 

Financial Officer
(Principal financial and accounting officer)

Date: February 27, 2024 

96 

   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 

Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  this  report  has  been  signed  below  by  the 

following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Date 

Signature

Title 

/s/ JOHN K. KIBARIAN 
John K. Kibarian

Director, President and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal executive officer)

Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial 
Officer 
(Principal financial and accounting officer)

Lead Independent Director 

Director  

Director 

Director 

Director  

Director  

Director  

February 27, 2024   

February 27, 2024   

February 27, 2024   

February 27, 2024   

February 27, 2024   

/s/ ADNAN RAZA
Adnan Raza

/s/ JOSEPH R. BRONSON 
Joseph R. Bronson

s/ CHI-FOON CHAN 
Chi-Foon Chan

/s/ NANCY ERBA 
Nancy Erba

February 27, 2024   

/s/ MICHAEL B. GUSTAFSON 
Michael Gustafson

February 27, 2024   

February 27, 2024   

February 27, 2024   

s/ YE JANE LI 
Ye Jane Li

s/ KIMON MICHAELS 
Kimon Michaels

s/ SHUO ZHANG 
Shuo Zhang

97 

     
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Name of Entity 

Cimetrix Incorporated 

Cimetrix International, Inc. 

Cimetrix Japan KK 

Cimetrix Software (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

PDF Solutions Asia Services, Inc. 

PDF Solutions Canada Ltd. 

PDF Solutions GmbH 

PDF Solutions International Services, Inc. 

PDF Solutions KK 

PDF Solutions Pacific Services, Inc. 

PDF Solutions SARL 

Exhibit 21.01 

Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 

Nevada 

Nevada 

Japan 

China 

Delaware 

Canada 

Germany 

Delaware 

Japan 

Delaware 

France 

PDF Solutions Semiconductor Technology (Korea) Limited 

Korea 

PDF Solutions Semiconductor Technology (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

PDF Solutions Semiconductor Technology Taiwan Ltd. 

Taiwan 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S 8 (Nos. 333-257792, 333-233070, 333-
202455, 333-180324, 333-167533, 333-159211, 333-149281, 333 141660, 333-133332, 333-112728, 333-109809, and 333-102509) of 
PDF Solutions, Inc. of our reports dated February 27, 2024 relating to the consolidated financial statements and internal control over 
financial reporting, which appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Exhibit 23.01 

/s/ BPM LLP 

San Jose, California 
February 27, 2024 

 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 31.01 

I, John K. Kibarian, certify that: 

1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PDF Solutions, Inc.; 

CERTIFICATIONS 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with 
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all 
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the period presented in this 
report; 

4.  The  registrant’s  other  certifying  officer(s)  and  I  are  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls  and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in 
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  or  caused  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to  be  designed  under  our 
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us 
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under 
our  supervision,  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the  reliability  of  financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about 
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; 
and 

(d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s 
most  recent  fiscal  quarter  (the  registrant’s  fourth  fiscal  quarter  in  the  case  of  an  annual  report)  that  has  materially  affected,  or  is 
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the 
equivalent functions): 

(a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are 
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s 
internal control over financial reporting. 

February 27, 2024 

     /s/ John K. Kibarian 
John K. Kibarian 

  President and Chief Executive Officer 

(principal executive officer) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 31.02 

I, Adnan Raza, certify that: 

1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PDF Solutions, Inc.; 

CERTIFICATIONS 

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact 
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with 
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all 
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in 
this report; 

4.  The  registrant’s  other  certifying  officer(s)  and  I  are  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls  and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in 
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a)  Designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  or  caused  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to  be  designed  under  our 
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us 
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under 
our  supervision,  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the  reliability  of  financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about 
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; 
and 

(d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s 
most  recent  fiscal  quarter  (the  registrant’s  fourth  fiscal  quarter  in  the  case  of  an  annual  report)  that  has  materially  affected,  or  is 
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over 
financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the 
equivalent functions): 

(a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are 
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s 
internal control over financial reporting. 

February 27, 2024 

     /s/ Adnan Raza 
  Adnan Raza 
  Executive  Vice  President,  Finance  and  Chief

Financial Officer 
(Principal financial and accounting officer) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

EXHIBIT 32.01 

In connection with the Annual Report of PDF Solutions, Inc. (the “Company”) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
2023 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 27, 2024 (the “Report”), I, John K. Kibarian, President and 
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge: 

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)  The  information  contained  in  the  Report  fairly  presents,  in  all  material  respects,  the  financial  condition  and  result  of 

operations of the Company. 

February 27, 2024 

     /s/ John K. Kibarian 
John K. Kibarian 

  President and Chief Executive Officer 

(principal executive officer) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

EXHIBIT 32.02 

In connection with the Annual Report of PDF Solutions, Inc. (the “Company”) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
2023  as  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  on  February  27,  2024 (the  “Report”),  I,  Adnan  Raza,  Executive  Vice 
President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge: 

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2)  The  information  contained  in  the  Report  fairly  presents,  in  all  material  respects,  the  financial  condition  and  result  of 

operations of the Company. 

     /s/ Adnan Raza 
  Adnan Raza 
  Executive  Vice  President, Finance and  Chief

Financial Officer 
(principal financial and accounting officer) 

February 27, 2024 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(This page has been left blank intentionally.) 

DEAR FELLOW STOCKHOLDERS,

I am pleased to report that 2022 was a record financial year for PDF Solutions, as we continued to grow business interest

and engagement and improve our strategic position. That we were able to achieve this against the backdrop of a mixed 

industry environment demonstrates the resilience and strength of our business.

Our financial accomplishments from 2022 include:

• Record total full-year 2022 revenues of $148.5 million, up 34% year over year

• Non-GAAP gross margins of 71%, up from the previous year

• Bookings for full year 2022 up more than 30% compared to full year 2021 bookings

• Backlog of approximately $280 million as of December 31, 2022, up more than 50% compared to backlog as of

December 31, 2021

As customers accelerated their development of next generation semiconductor manufacturing processes, our bookings for

Characterization  Vehicle®  infrastructure, eProbe®  e-beam inspection, DFM and  Cimetrix®  data  connection/collection 

software, and  Exensio®  analytics for leading  edge all accelerated. Our expertise delivering  end-of-line  and in-line 

characterization for the critical ramping of leading-edge process yield is unparalleled in the semiconductor industry.

Our focus on Exensio machine learning (ML) capability is in the early stages of adoption, which we expect will transform

how our customers interact with the data our systems collect and enable them to surface signals in their data for increased 

production efficiency and product quality. We continued to invest in this area, adding new features and capabilities to our 

platform to better serve our customers' needs.

In April of 2023, we published on our website our inaugural report on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters

impacting  our operations in 2022. We recognize the significant environmental challenges faced  by  the semiconductor 

industry as it transitions to a green economy and believe that our solutions can help drive reductions in the consumption of

power, water, and materials by improving our customers’ yield and time-to-market. Also, we believe that embedding ESG

into our operations and products will support the success of our business and help us implement our mission.

Looking ahead, we are excited about the future opportunities for PDF Solutions. Our data and analytics platform spans the

breadth of the product lifecycle, from equipment providers to the factory floor, to test operations, and finally to assembly 

and packaging. With our Exensio platform, we can provide visibility into product data that is unique within the industry and 

can drive measurable improvements in yield, quality, and time-to-market. Our investment in ML is enabling our customers

to leverage data at the edge and drive decisions and actions that were not possible just a few short years ago.

I want to thank our innovative employees for their continued effort and dedication, and all stockholders for your support

and the trust you have placed in our team. Our board of directors and executive team, along with all employees, look 

forward to continuing to deliver long-term value to our customers and all stockholders.

Sincerely,

CORPORATE INFORMATION

CORPORATE INFORMATION

MANAGEMENT TEAM 

MANAGEMENT TEAM 

John K. Kibarian, Ph.D.  
Chief Executive Officer,   
President and CoFounder 

John K. Kibarian, Ph.D. 
Chief Executive Officer,  
President and CoFounder 

Adnan Raza  
Executive Vice President, Finance  
and Chief Financial Officer  

Adnan Raza  
Executive Vice President, Finance  
and Chief Financial Officer  

Kimon Michaels, Ph.D.  
Kimon Michaels, Ph.D.  
Executive Vice President, 
Executive Vice President, 
Products  and Solutions and Co
Products  and Solutions and Co
Founder 
Founder 

Andrzej Strojwas, Ph.D.  
Chief Technology Officer

Andrzej Strojwas, Ph.D. 
Chief Technology Officer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Joseph R. Bronson  
Joseph R. Bronson  
Lead Independent Director,
Principal and Chief Executive Off
Principal and Chief Executive Officer, 
PDF Solutions, Inc.; 
Group LLC; Director, Graph Audio
The Bronson Group, LLC;
Chair of the Board, GraphAudio, Inc.

icer, Bronson 

ANNUAL MEETING  
ANNUAL MEETING  
OF STOCKHOLDERS  
OF STOCKHOLDERS  
Tuesday, June 18, 2024  
Tuesday, June 14, 2022 
PDF Solutions, Inc.   
PDF Solutions, Inc.  
2858 De La Cruz Boulevard 
2858 De La Cruz Boulevard 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 

Chi-Foon	Chan,	Ph.D.
Member	of	the	Board	of	Advisors	for	
TMFG	Group	at	Intel	Corporation

Nancy Erba  

; Former 

Nancy Erba  
Chief Financial Officer, Infinera Corporation

Chief Financial Officer, Infinera Corporation

Michael B. Gustafson  
Michael B. Gustafson  
Executive Chairman and Independent Board 
Executive Chairman and Independent Board 
Director, Druva, Inc.;   
Director, Druva, Inc.;  
Director, Matterport, Inc. 
Director, Everspin Technologies, Inc. 

John K. Kibarian, Ph.D.
Chief Executive Officer, 
President and CoFounder

John K. Kibarian, Ph.D.
Chief Executive Officer, 
President and CoFounder

Ye Jane Li
Strategic Advisor for Diversis Capital; 
Director, Knowles Corporation and 
Semtech Corporation 

Ye Jane Li
Strategic Advisor for Diversis Capital; 
Director, Semtech, Knowles, CTS, and 
ServciePower 

Kimon Michaels, Ph.D.  
Executive Vice President, Products and  
Solutions and CoFounder 

Kimon Michaels, Ph.D.  
Executive Vice President, Products and  
Solutions and CoFounder 

EXCHANGE AND STOCK  
EXCHANGE AND STOCK  
MARKET LISTING 
MARKET LISTING 
Nasdaq Stock Market: PDFS 
Nasdaq Stock Market: PDFS 

TRANSFER AGENT AND  
TRANSFER AGENT AND  
REGISTRAR   
REGISTRAR  
Computershare	Investor	Services	
Computershare, Inc. 
150	Royall	St.	
462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600 
Canton, MA	02021
Louisville, KY 40202 

LEGAL COUNSEL  
LEGAL COUNSEL 
Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP 
Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP 
1000 Marsh Road  
1000 Marsh Road 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 
Menlo Park, CA 94025 

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
BPM LLP  
BPM LLP  
10 Almaden Boulevard  
10 Almaden Boulevard  
Suite 1000  
Suite 1000  
San Jose, CA 95113 
San Jose, CA 95113 

INVESTOR RELATIONS  
PDF Solutions, Inc.   
2858 De La Cruz Blvd  
Santa Clara, California 95050 

INVESTOR RELATIONS 
PDF Solutions, Inc.  
2858 De La Cruz Blvd 
Santa Clara, California 95050 

Shuo Zhang 
Chief Executive Officer and General Partner 

Shuo Zhang 
Chief Executive Officer and General Partner, 
of Renascia Partners LLC
Renascia Pa rtners LLC  ; Director, SOITEC SA and 
Grid Dynamics Holding, Inc.
Venture Capitalist

Tel: +1 408 280 7900  
Tel: +1 408 280 7900 
https://ir.pdf.com/information-request
info@pdf.com  
http://www.pdf.com 
http://www.pdf.com 

John Kibarian

Chief Executive Officer, President, and Co-Founder

PDF Solutions’ mission is to provide innovative solutions to create, access,

and organize data to enable analysis and control for semiconductor and

electronics companies to achieve better time-to-market, yields, quality,

and operational efficiencies.

Safe Harbor Statement 

Safe Harbor Statement 

With the exception of historical facts, the statements in this Report, including Dr. Kibarian’s letter to stockholders, are forwardlooking and subject to the Safe Harbor 

With the exception of historical facts, the statements in this Report, including Dr. Kibarian’s letter to stockholders, are forwardlooking and subject to the Safe Harbor 

provisions created by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include, but are not limited to: PDF’s positioning 

provisions created by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include, but are not limited to: PDF’s positioning 

for, and ability to achieve, future growth, higher margins, or more predictable revenue; PDF’s ability to accurately predict future trends and customer needs; PDF’s 

for, and ability to achieve, future growth, higher margins, or more predictable revenue; PDF’s ability to accurately predict future trends and customer needs; PDF’s 

development of products and services sought by the market; and, PDF’s ability to support solutions and customers  use of PDF’s products and services. Actual results could 
development of products and services sought by the market; and, PDF’s ability to support solutionmers use  of PDF’s products and services. Actual results could 

’

differ materially from those projected in any forwardlooking statements. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially include the risks set forth in 

differ materially from those projected in any forwardlooking statements. Risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially include the risks set forth in 

PDF’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including any changes in the marketplace for semiconductor analytics products, including the introduction of 

PDF’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including any changes in the marketplace for semiconductor analytics products, including the introduction of 

products or services competitive with those of PDF. The forwardlooking statements made in this Report are made as of the date hereof, and PDF does not assume any 

products or services competitive with those of PDF. The forwardlooking statements made in this Report are made as of the date hereof, and PDF does not assume any 

obligation to update such statements nor the reasons why actual results could differ materially from those projected in such statements.

obligation to update such statements nor the reasons why actual results could differ materially from those projected in such statements.

© 2024 PDF Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks used herein are the property of PDF Solutions, Inc. or its affiliates. 

© 2022 PDF Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks used herein are the property of PDF Solutions, Inc. or its affiliates. 

 
 
 
  
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS – USA 
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS – USA 

CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS – USA 

2858 De La Cruz Boulevard 
2858 De La Cruz Boulevard 
2858 De La Cruz Boulevard 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 
Santa Clara, CA 95050 

Tel: 408-280-7900 
Tel: 408-280-7900 
info@pdf.com
info@pdf.com

Tel: 408-280-7900 
https://ir.pdf.com/information-request

USA
USA

USA 

Canada 
Canada 

Canada 

China 
China 

China 

France 
France 

France 

Germany 
Germany 

Germany 

Italy 
Italy 

Italy 

Japan 
Japan 

Japan 

Republic of Korea 
Republic of Korea 

Republic of Korea 

Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
Taiwan (R.O.C.) 

Taiwan (R.O.C.) 

P11032
004CTN3BE2

OTHER OFFICE LOCATIONS 
OTHER OFFICE LOCATIONS 

OTHER OFFICE LOCATIONS 

1469 N. Milpitas Blvd.
1469 N. Milpitas Blvd.
1469 N. Milpitas Blvd.
Milpitas, CA 95035
Milpitas, CA 95035
Milpitas, CA 95035

21925 Field Parkway, Suite 200
21925 Field Parkway, Suite 200
Deer Park, IL 60010
Deer Park, IL 60010

21925 Field Parkway, Suite 200
Deer Park, IL 60010

2840 Liberty Ave., Suite 204 
2840 Liberty Ave., Suite 204 
2840 Liberty Ave., Suite 204 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Pittsburgh, PA 15222

101 West Renner Road, Suite 315
101 West Renner Road, Suite 315
Richardson, TX 75082
Richardson, TX 75082

101 West Renner Road, Suite 315
Richardson, TX 75082

6979 High Tech Drive
6979 High Tech Drive
6979 High Tech Drive
Salt Lake City, UT 84047

555 W. Hastings Street
 Vancouver, BC V6B 4N4

U nit 91203-1204, Building 2#, No. 51, Zhengxue Road
U nit 91 03-1204, Building 2#, No. 51, Zhengxue Road
Pudong, Shanghai 200433
Pudong, Shanghai 200433

Unit-1203-1204, Building 2#, No. 51, Zhengxue Road
Pudong, Shanghai 200433

45 Place Jacques Mirouze, Espace Pitot 
45 Place Jacques Mirouze, Espace Pitot 
34000 Montpellier
34000 Montpellier

45 Place Jacques Mirouze, Espace Pitot 
34000 Montpellier

Schwanthalerstrasse 10 
Schwanthalerstrasse 10 
Schwanthalerstrasse 10 
Munich, D-80336
Munich, D-80336
Munich, D-80336

Via Roma, 10 
Via Roma, 10 
25015 Desenzano del Garda (Brescia)
25015 Desenzano del Garda (Brescia)

Via Roma, 10  
25015 Desenzano del Garda (Brescia)

1-58-7 V.H.401
Yoyogi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 151-0053

Trojan Building #201, 5-48-2, Chojmachi, Naka-ku
Trojan Building #201, 5-48-2, Chojmachi, Naka-ku
Yokohama-Shi Kanagawa, 231-0033
Yokohama-Shi Kanagawa, 231-0033

Trojan Building #201, 5-48-2, Chojmachi, Naka-ku
Yokohama-Shi Kanagawa, 231-0033

Suite 703,7F, Woorim W-CITY,9-22, 
Suite 703,7F, Woorim W-CITY,9-22, 
Suite 703,7F, Woorim W-CITY,9-22, 
Pangyo-ro 255beon-gil, Bundang-gu, 
Pangyo-ro 255beon-gil, Bundang-gu, 
Pangyo-ro 255beon-gil, Bundang-gu, 
Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 13486
Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 13486
Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 13486

5F-3, No.38, Taiyuan St. 
5F-3, No.38, Taiyuan St. 
Zhubei City, Hsinchu County 30265
Zhubei City, Hsinchu County 30265

5F-3, No.38, Taiyuan St. 
Zhubei City, Hsinchu County 30265

15F., No. 12-16, Sec. 2, Zhongyang S. Rd.
15F., No. 12-16, Sec. 2, Zhongyang S. Rd.
15F., No. 12-16, Sec. 2, Zhongyang S. Rd.
Beitou District, Taipei City 11270
Beitou District, Taipei City 11270
Beitou District, Taipei City 11270

P
P
D
D
F
F
S
S
O
O
L
L
U
U
T
T
I
I
O
O
N
N
S
S

2
2
2
0
0
0
2
2
2
2
2
A
A
A
N
N
N
N
N
N
U
U
U
A
A
A
L
L
L
R
R
R
E
E
P
P
E
P
O
O
O
R
R
R
T
T
T

2022 Annual Report

2021 Annual Report

20 1 Annual Report

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
